Data File: GSS2016(Description Only Codebook)

1) YEAR
GSS year for this respondent


2) ID
Respondent's ID number


3) WRKSTAT
Last week were you working full time, part time, going to school, keeping house, or what?


4) HRS1
If working, full or part time, how many hours did you work last week, at all jobs?


5) HRS2
If with a job, but not at work: How many hours a week do you usually work, at all jobs?


6) EVWORK
If retired, in school, keeping house, or other, did you ever work for as long as one year?


7) WRKSLF
Are/were you self-employed or do/did you work for someone else?


8) WRKGOVT
Are/were you employed by the federal, state, or local government or by a private employer (including non-profit organizations)?


9) OCC10
Respondent's occupation code from the 2010 Census Occupation Classification system


10) PRESTG10
Respondent's occupational prestige score (2010)


11) PRSTG105
Respondent's occupational prestige score using threshold method (2010) (PRESTG105PLUS)


12) INDUS10
Respondent's occupation, prestige, and industry


13) MARITAL
Are you currently married, widowed, divorced, separated, or have you never been married?


14) MARTYPE
Marital type


15) DIVORCE
If currently married or widowed, have you ever been divorced or legally separated?


16) WIDOWED
If currently married, separated, or divorced: Have you ever been widowed?


17) SPWRKSTA
Last week, was your wife/husband working full-time, part-time, going to school, keeping house, or what?


18) SPHRS1
If working, full- or part-time: How many hours did (he/she) work last week, at all jobs?


19) SPHRS2
If with a job, but not at work: How many hours a week does (he/she) work last week, at all jobs?


20) SPEVWORK
If retired, in school, keeping house, or other: Did [your spouse] ever work for as long as one year?


21) COWRKSTA
Last week was your partner working full time, part time, going to school, keeping house, or what?


22) COWRKSLF
Is/was your partner self-employed or does/did they work for somebody else?


23) COEVWORK
Partner ever work as long as a year


24) COHRS1
Number of hours partner worked last week


25) COHRS2
Number of hours partner usually works a week


26) SPWRKSLF
Is/was your spouse self-employed or does/did they work for someone else?


27) SPOCC10
Spouse's occupation code from the 2010 Census Occupational Classification system


28) SPPRES10
Spouse occupational prestige score (2010)


29) SPPRS105
Spouse occupational prestige score using threshold method (2010) (SPPRES105PLUS)


30) SPIND10
Spouse's industry code from the NAICS 2007


31) COOCC10
Respondent Census Occupation Code (2010)


32) COIND10
Respondent's industry code (NAICS 2007)


33) COPRES10
Partner's occupational prestige score (2010)


34) PAWRKSLF
Was [your father] self-employed or did he work for someone else?


35) PAOCC10
What kind of work did your [father/father substitute] usually do while you were growing up? That is, what was his job called? What did he actually do? What were some of his main duties?


36) PAPRES10
Father's occupational prestige score (2010)


37) PAPRS105
Father's occupational prestige score using threshold method (2010)


38) PAIND10
Father's industry


39) MAWRKSLF
Was [your mother] self-employed or did she work for someone else?


40) MAOCC10
What kind of work did your [mother/mother substitute] usually do while you were growing up? That is, what was her job called? What did she actually do? What were some of her main duties?


41) MAPRES10
Mother's occupational prestige score (2010)


42) MAPRS105
Mother's occupational prestige score using threshold method (2010) (MAPRES105PLUS)


43) MAIND10
What kind of place did she work for? What did they (make/do)?


44) SIBS
How many brothers and sisters did you have? Please count those born alive, but no longer living, as well as those alive now. Also include stepbrothers and stepsisters, and children adopted by your parents.


45) CHILDS
How many children have you ever had? Please count all that were born alive at any time (including any you had from a previous marriage).


46) AGE
Respondent's age


47) AGEKDBRN
How old were you when your first child was born?


48) EDUC
What is the highest grade in elementary school or high school that you finished and got credit for?


49) PAEDUC
What is the highest grade in elementary school or high school that your father finished and got credit for?


50) MAEDUC
What is the highest grade in elementary school or high school that your mother finished and got credit for?


51) SPEDUC
What is the highest grade in elementary school or high school that your husband/wife finished and got credit for?


52) COEDUC
Highest year school completed, partner


53) CODEG
Partners highest degree


54) DEGREE
Do you have any college degrees? (If yes: what degree or degrees?) Code highest degree earned


55) PADEG
Does [your father] have any college degrees? (If yes: what degree or degrees?) Code highest degree earned


56) MADEG
Does [your mother] have any college degrees? (If yes: what degree or degrees?) Code highest degree earned


57) SPDEG
Does [your spouse] have any college degrees? (If yes: what degree or degrees?) Code highest degree earned


58) MAJOR1
What was your major or field of study when you received your (respondent's college degree) degree? First mention


59) MAJOR2
What was your major or field of study when you received your (respondent's college degree) degree? Second mention


60) DIPGED
Was that a diploma awarded by your high school at graduation at the end of 12th grade, a GED awarded after you took a test, or something else?


61) SPDIPGED
Was that a diploma awarded by (RESPONDENT'S SPOUSE)'s high school at graduation at the end of 12th grade, a GED awarded after (RESPONDENT'S SPOUSE) took a test, or something else?


62) CODIPGED
Was that a diploma awarded by (RESPONDENT'S PARNER'S) high school at graduation at the end of 12th grade, a GED awarded after (RESPONDENT'S PARTNER) took a test, or something else?


63) WHENHS
In what year did you receive your high school degree?


64) WHENCOL
In what year did you receive [college name] degree?


65) VOEDCOL
Besides attending college for credit, did you complete any courses for credit at an institution such as a business college, technical or vocational school?


66) VOEDNME1
If yes to VOEDCOL: What institution was that?


67) VOEDNCOL
Did you complete any courses for credit at an institution such as a business college, technical, or vocational school?


68) VOEDNME2
If yes to VOEDNCOL: What institution was that?


69) SEX
Respondent's sex


70) RACE
What race do you consider yourself?


71) RES16
Which of the categories on this card comes closest to the type of place you were living in when you were 16 years old?


72) REG16
In what state or foreign country were you living when you were 16 years old?


73) MOBILE16
When you were 16 years old, were you living in this same (city/town/county)?


74) FAMILY16
Were you living with both your own mother and father around the time you were 16? (If no: With whom were you living around that time?)


75) FAMDIF16
If not living with both own mother and father:  What happened?


76) MAWRKGRW
Did your mother ever work for pay for as long as a year, while you were growing up?


77) INCOM16
Thinking about the time when you were 16 years old, compared with American families, in general, then would you say your family income was far below average, below average, average, above average, or far above average?


78) BORN
Were you born in this country?


79) PARBORN
Were both your parents born in this country?


80) GRANBORN
How many grandparents were born outside the United States?


81) HOMPOP
Number of persons in household


82) BABIES
Number of members under six years of age


83) PRETEEN
Number of members six to 12 years


84) TEENS
Number of members 13 to 17 years old


85) ADULTS
Number of members over 17 years old


86) UNRELAT
How many persons in the household are not related to you in any way?


87) EARNRS
Just thinking about your family now -- those people in the household who are related to you -- how many persons in the family, including yourself, earned any money last year from any job or employment?


88) INCOME
In which of these groups did your total family income, from all sources, fall last year before taxes, that is?


89) RINCOME
[If respondent earned any income from (OCCUPATION IN OCC) in the previous year] In which of these groups did your earnings from (OCCUPATION IN OCC) for last year fall?  That is, before taxes or other deductions.


90) INCOME16
In which of these groups did your total family income, from all sources, fall last year before taxes, that is?


91) RINCOM16
In which of these groups did your earnings from all sources for [last year] fall? That is, before taxes or other deductions.


92) REGION
Region of interview


93) XNORCSIZ
Expanded N.O.R.C. size code


94) SRCBELT
SRC (Survey Research Center, University of Michigan) new belt code


95) SIZE
Size of place in thousands -- A four-digit number which provides actual size of place of interview.


96) PARTYID
Generally speaking, do you usually think of yourself as a Republican, Democrat, Independent, or what?


97) VOTE12
In 2012, you remember that Obama ran for President on the Democratic ticket against Romney for the Republicans.  Do you remember for sure whether or not you voted in that election?


98) PRES12
Did you vote for Obama or Romney?


99) IF12WHO
Who would you have voted for, for president, if you had voted? [2012 election]


100) POLVIEWS
We hear a lot of talk these days about liberals and conservatives.  I'm going to show you a seven-point scale on which the political views that people might hold are arranged from extremely liberal (point 1) to extremely conservative (point 7).  Where would you place yourself on this scale?


101) NATSPAC
We are faced with many problems in this country, none of which can be solved easily or inexpensively. I'm going to name some of these problems, and for each one I'd like you to tell me whether you think we're spending too much money on it, too little money or about the right amount. A. Space exploration program


102) NATENVIR
We are faced with many problems in this country, none of which can be solved easily or inexpensively. I'm going to name some of these problems, and for each one I'd like you to tell me whether you think we're spending too much money on it, too little money or about the right amount. B. Improving and protecting the environment


103) NATHEAL
We are faced with many problems in this country, none of which can be solved easily or inexpensively. I'm going to name some of these problems, and for each one I'd like you to tell me whether you think we're spending too much money on it, too little money or about the right amount. C. Improving and protecting the nation's health


104) NATCITY
We are faced with many problems in this country, none of which can be solved easily or inexpensively. I'm going to name some of these problems, and for each one I'd like you to tell me whether you think we're spending too much money on it, too little money or about the right amount. D. Solving the problems of the big cities


105) NATCRIME
We are faced with many problems in this country, none of which can be solved easily or inexpensively. I'm going to name some of these problems, and for each one I'd like you to tell me whether you think we're spending too much money on it, too little money or about the right amount. E. Halting the rising crime rate


106) NATDRUG
We are faced with many problems in this country, none of which can be solved easily or inexpensively. I'm going to name some of these problems, and for each one I'd like you to tell me whether you think we're spending too much money on it, too little money or about the right amount. F. Dealing with drug addiction


107) NATEDUC
We are faced with many problems in this country, none of which can be solved easily or inexpensively. I'm going to name some of these problems, and for each one I'd like you to tell me whether you think we're spending too much money on it, too little money or about the right amount. G. Improving the nation's education system


108) NATRACE
We are faced with many problems in this country, none of which can be solved easily or inexpensively. I'm going to name some of these problems, and for each one I'd like you to tell me whether you think we're spending too much money on it, too little money or about the right amount. H. Improving the conditions of blacks


109) NATARMS
We are faced with many problems in this country, none of which can be solved easily or inexpensively. I'm going to name some of these problems, and for each one I'd like you to tell me whether you think we're spending too much money on it, too little money or about the right amount. I. The military, armaments, and defense


110) NATAID
We are faced with many problems in this country, none of which can be solved easily or inexpensively. I'm going to name some of these problems, and for each one I'd like you to tell me whether you think we're spending too much money on it, too little money or about the right amount. J. Foreign aid


111) NATFARE
We are faced with many problems in this country, none of which can be solved easily or inexpensively. I'm going to name some of these problems, and for each one I'd like you to tell me whether you think we're spending too much money on it, too little money or about the right amount. K. Welfare


112) NATROAD
We are faced with many problems in this country, none of which can be solved easily or inexpensively. I'm going to name some of these problems, and for each one I'd like you to tell me whether you think we're spending too much money on it, too little money or about the right amount. L. Highways and bridges


113) NATSOC
We are faced with many problems in this country, none of which can be solved easily or inexpensively. I'm going to name some of these problems, and for each one I'd like you to tell me whether you think we're spending too much money on it, too little money or about the right amount. M. Social Security


114) NATMASS
We are faced with many problems in this country, none of which can be solved easily or inexpensively. I'm going to name some of these problems, and for each one I'd like you to tell me whether you think we're spending too much money on it, too little money or about the right amount. N. Mass transportation


115) NATPARK
We are faced with many problems in this country, none of which can be solved easily or inexpensively. I'm going to name some of these problems, and for each one I'd like you to tell me whether you think we're spending too much money on it, too little money or about the right amount. O. Parks and recreation


116) NATCHLD
We are faced with many problems in this country, none of which can be solved easily or inexpensively. I'm going to name some of these problems, and for each one I'd like you to tell me whether you think we're spending too much money on it, too little money or about the right amount. P. Assistance for childcare


117) NATSCI
We are faced with many problems in this country, none of which can be solved easily or inexpensively. I'm going to name some of these problems, and for each one I'd like you to tell me whether you think we're spending too much money on it, too little money or about the right amount. Q. Supporting scientific research


118) NATENRGY
We are faced with many problems in this country, none of which can be solved easily or inexpensively. I'm going to name some of these problems, and for each one I'd like you to tell me whether you think we're spending too much money on it, too little money or about the right amount. R. Developing alternate energy sources


119) NATSPACY
We are faced with many problems in this country, none of which can be solved easily or inexpensively. I'm going to name some of these problems, and for each one I'd like you to tell me whether you think we're spending too much money on it, too little money or about the right amount. A. Space exploration - (Version Y)


120) NATENVIY
We are faced with many problems in this country, none of which can be solved easily or inexpensively. I'm going to name some of these problems, and for each one I'd like you to tell me whether you think we're spending too much money on it, too little money or about the right amount. B. The environment -(Version Y)


121) NATHEALY
We are faced with many problems in this country, none of which can be solved easily or inexpensively. I'm going to name some of these problems, and for each one I'd like you to tell me whether you think we're spending too much money on it, too little money or about the right amount. C. Health - (Version Y)


122) NATCITYY
We are faced with many problems in this country, none of which can be solved easily or inexpensively. I'm going to name some of these problems, and for each one I'd like you to tell me whether you think we're spending too much money on it, too little money or about the right amount. D. Assistance to big cities - (Version Y)


123) NATCRIMY
We are faced with many problems in this country, none of which can be solved easily or inexpensively. I'm going to name some of these problems, and for each one I'd like you to tell me whether you think we're spending too much money on it, too little money or about the right amount. E. Law enforcement - (Version Y)


124) NATDRUGY
We are faced with many problems in this country, none of which can be solved easily or inexpensively. I'm going to name some of these problems, and for each one I'd like you to tell me whether you think we're spending too much money on it, too little money or about the right amount. F. Drug rehabilitation - (Version Y)


125) NATEDUCY
We are faced with many problems in this country, none of which can be solved easily or inexpensively. I'm going to name some of these problems, and for each one I'd like you to tell me whether you think we're spending too much money on it, too little money or about the right amount. G. Education - (Version Y)


126) NATRACEY
We are faced with many problems in this country, none of which can be solved easily or inexpensively. I'm going to name some of these problems, and for each one I'd like you to tell me whether you think we're spending too much money on it, too little money or about the right amount. H. Assistance to blacks - (Version Y)


127) NATARMSY
We are faced with many problems in this country, none of which can be solved easily or inexpensively. I'm going to name some of these problems, and for each one I'd like you to tell me whether you think we're spending too much money on it, too little money or about the right amount. I. National defense - (Version Y)


128) NATAIDY
We are faced with many problems in this country, none of which can be solved easily or inexpensively. I'm going to name some of these problems, and for each one I'd like you to tell me whether you think we're spending too much money on it, too little money or about the right amount. J. Assistance to other countries - (Version Y)


129) NATFAREY
We are faced with many problems in this country, none of which can be solved easily or inexpensively. I'm going to name some of these problems, and for each one I'd like you to tell me whether you think we're spending too much money on it, too little money or about the right amount. K. Assistance to the poor - (Version Y)


130) EQWLTH
Some people think that the government in Washington ought to reduce the income differences between the rich and the poor, perhaps by raising the taxes of wealthy families or by giving income assistance to the poor. Others think that the government should not concern itself with reducing this income difference between the rich and the poor. Here is a card with a scale from 1 to 7. Think of a score of 1 as meaning that the government ought to reduce the income differences between rich and poor, and a score of 7 meaning that the government should not concern itself with reducing income differences. What score between 1 and 7 comes closest to the way you feel?


131) TAX
Do you consider the amount of federal income tax which you have to pay as too high, about right or too low?


132) SPKATH
There are always some people whose ideas are considered bad or dangerous by other people. For instance, somebody who is against churches and religion. If such a person wanted to make a speech in your city/town/community against churches and religion, should he be allowed to speak or not?


133) COLATH
There are always some people whose ideas are considered bad or dangerous by other people. For instance, somebody who is against churches and religion. Should such a person be allowed to teach in a college or university or not?


134) LIBATH
There are always some people whose ideas are considered bad or dangerous by other people. For instance, somebody who is against churches and religion. If some people in your community suggested a book he wrote against churches and religion should be taken out of your public library, would you favor removing this book or not?


135) SPKRAC
Consider a person who believes that blacks are genetically inferior. If such a person wanted to make a speech in your community claiming that blacks are inferior, should he be allowed to speak or not?


136) COLRAC
Consider a person who believes that blacks are genetically inferior. Should such a person be allowed to teach in a college or university or not?


137) LIBRAC
Consider a person who believes that blacks are genetically inferior. If some people in your community suggested that a book he wrote which said blacks are inferior should be taken out of your public library, would you favor removing this book or not?


138) SPKCOM
Now, I should like to ask you some questions about a man who admits he is a communist. Suppose this admitted communist wanted to make a speech in your community. Should he be allowed to speak or not?


139) COLCOM
Now, I should like to ask you some questions about a man who admits he is a communist. Suppose he is teaching in a college. Should he be fired or not?


140) LIBCOM
Now, I should like to ask you some questions about a man who admits he is a communist. Suppose he wrote a book which is in your public library. Somebody in your community suggests that the book should be removed from the library. Would you favor removing it or not?


141) SPKMIL
Consider a person who advocates doing away with elections and letting the military run the country. If such a person wanted to make a speech in your community, should he be allowed to speak or not?


142) COLMIL
Consider a person who advocates doing away with elections and letting the military run the country. Should such a person be allowed to teach in a college or university or not?


143) LIBMIL
Consider a person who advocates doing away with elections and letting the military run the country. Suppose he wrote a book advocating doing away with elections and letting the military run the country. Somebody in your community suggests that the book should be removed from the library. Would you favor removing it or not?


144) SPKHOMO
What about a man who admits that he is a homosexual? Suppose this admitted homosexual wanted to make a speech in your community. Should he be allowed to speak or not?


145) COLHOMO
Consider a man who admits that he is a homosexual? Should such a person be allowed to teach in a college or university or not?


146) LIBHOMO
What about a man who admits that he is a homosexual? If somebody in your community suggests that a book he wrote in favor of homosexuality should be taken out of your public library, would you favor removing this book or not?


147) SPKMSLM
Now consider a Muslim clergyman who preaches hatred of the United States. If such a person wanted to make a speech in your community preaching hatred of the United States, should he be allowed to speak or not?


148) COLMSLM
Consider a Muslim clergyman who preaches hatred of the United States. Should such a person be allowed to teach in a college or university or not?


149) LIBMSLM
If some people in your community suggested that a book [a Muslim clergyman] wrote which preaches hatred of the United States should be taken out of your public library, would you favor removing this book or not?


150) CAPPUN
Do you favor or oppose the death penalty for persons convicted of murder?


151) GUNLAW
Would you favor or oppose a law which would require a person to obtain a police permit before he or she could buy a gun?


152) COURTS
In general, do you think the courts in this area deal too harshly or not harshly enough with criminals?


153) GRASS
Do you think the use of marijuana should be made legal or not?


154) RELIG
What is your religious preference? Is it Protestant, Catholic, Jewish, some other religion or no religion?


155) DENOM
If respondent answered 'Protestant' as their religious preference for variable 'RELIG': What specific denomination is that, if any?


156) OTHER
Other Protestant denominations


157) JEW
Do you consider yourself Orthodox, Conservative, Reform or none of these?


158) FUND
Fundamentalism/Liberalism of respondent's religion


159) ATTEND
How often do you attend religious services?


160) RELITEN
Would you call yourself a strong [religious preference] or a not very strong [religious preference]?


161) POSTLIFE
Do you believe there is a life after death?


162) PRAY
About how often do you pray?


163) POPESPKS
We are interested in what American Catholics think about religious matters. Please select the answer from this card that comes closest to your own personal opinion about the following statement: Under certain conditions, the pope is infallible when he speaks on matters of faith and morals.


164) RELIG16
In what religion were you raised?


165) DENOM16
In what religion were you raised? [If Protestant?] What specific denomination is that, if any?


166) OTH16
Other Protestant denominations


167) JEW16
Were you Orthodox, Conservative, Reform or none of these?


168) FUND16
Fundamentalism/Liberalism of religion respondent raised in


169) SPREL
What is your (spouse's) religious preference? Is it Protestant, Catholic, Jewish, some other religion or no religion?


170) SPDEN
What is your spouse's religious preference? [If Protestant?] What specific denomination is that, if any?


171) SPOTHER
Spouse - other Protestant denomination


172) SPJEW
If Jewish: Does [your spouse] consider herself/himself Orthodox, Conservative, Reform or none of these?


173) SPFUND
Fundamentalism/liberalism of religion of spouse


174) COREL
What is your partner's religious preference? Is it Protestant, Catholic, Jewish, some other religion, or no religion?


175) CODEN
What is your partner's religious preference? [If Protestant?] What specific denomination is that?


176) COOTHER
Other Protestant Denominations


177) COJEW
What sort of Jew is respondent's partner currently?


178) COFUND
How fundamentalist is partner's current religion?


179) PRAYER
The United States Supreme Court has ruled that no state or local government may require the reading of the Lord's Prayer or Bible verses in public schools. What are your views on this? Do you approve or disapprove of the court ruling?


180) BIBLE
Which of these statements comes closest to describing your feelings about the Bible? The Bible is the actual word of God and is to be taken literally, word for word; the Bible is the inspired word of God but not everything should be taken literally, word for word; the Bible is an ancient book of fables, legends, history and moral precepts recorded by man.


181) RACOPEN
Suppose there is a community-wide vote on the general housing issue. There are two possible laws to vote on. One law says that a homeowner can decide for himself whom to sell his house to, even if he prefers not to sell to African Americans. The second law says that a homeowner cannot refuse to sell to someone because of their race or color. Which law would you vote for?


182) RACLIVE
Are there any whites/blacks [opposite race] living in this neighborhood now?


183) AFFRMACT
Some people say that because of past discrimination, blacks should be given preference in hiring and promotion. Others say that such preference in hiring and promotion of blacks is wrong because it discriminates against whites. What about your opinion? Are you for or against preferential hiring and promotion of blacks? Do you favor preference in hiring and promotion strongly or not strongly? Do you oppose preference in hiring and promotion strongly or not strongly?


184) WRKWAYUP
Do you agree strongly, agree somewhat, neither agree nor disagree, disagree somewhat or disagree strongly with the following statement: Irish, Italians, Jewish and many other minorities overcame prejudice and worked their way up. Blacks should do the same without special favors.


185) CLOSEBLK
In general, how close do you feel to blacks?


186) CLOSEWHT
In general, how close do you feel to whites?


187) HAPPY
Taken all together, how would you say things are these days? Would you say that you are very happy, pretty happy or not too happy?


188) HAPMAR
Taking all things together, how would you describe your marriage?


189) HAPCOHAB
Taking things all together, would you say that your relationship with your partner is very happy, pretty happy or not too happy?


190) HEALTH
Would you say your own health, in general, is excellent, good, fair or poor?


191) LIFE
In general, do you find life exciting, pretty routine or dull?


192) HELPFUL
Would you say that most of the time people try to be helpful or that they are mostly just looking out for themselves?


193) FAIR
Do you think most people would try to take advantage of you if they got a chance or would they try to be fair?


194) TRUST
Generally speaking, would you say that most people can be trusted or that you can't be too careful in dealing with people?


195) CONFINAN
I am going to name some institutions in this country. As far as the people running these institutions are concerned, would you say you have a great deal of confidence, only some confidence or hardly any confidence at all in them? Banks and financial institutions.


196) CONBUS
I am going to name some institutions in this country. As far as the people running these institutions are concerned, would you say you have a great deal of confidence, only some confidence or hardly any confidence at all in them? Major companies.


197) CONCLERG
I am going to name some institutions in this country. As far as the people running these institutions are concerned, would you say you have a great deal of confidence, only some confidence or hardly any confidence at all in them? Organized religion.


198) CONEDUC
I am going to name some institutions in this country. As far as the people running these institutions are concerned, would you say you have a great deal of confidence, only some confidence or hardly any confidence at all in them? Education.


199) CONFED
I am going to name some institutions in this country. As far as the people running these institutions are concerned, would you say you have a great deal of confidence, only some confidence or hardly any confidence at all in them? Executive branch of the federal government.


200) CONLABOR
I am going to name some institutions in this country. As far as the people running these institutions are concerned, would you say you have a great deal of confidence, only some confidence or hardly any confidence at all in them? Organized labor.


201) CONPRESS
I am going to name some institutions in this country. As far as the people running these institutions are concerned, would you say you have a great deal of confidence, only some confidence or hardly any confidence at all in them? Press.


202) CONMEDIC
I am going to name some institutions in this country. As far as the people running these institutions are concerned, would you say you have a great deal of confidence, only some confidence or hardly any confidence at all in them? Medicine.


203) CONTV
I am going to name some institutions in this country. As far as the people running these institutions are concerned, would you say you have a great deal of confidence, only some confidence or hardly any confidence at all in them? Television.


204) CONJUDGE
I am going to name some institutions in this country. As far as the people running these institutions are concerned, would you say you have a great deal of confidence, only some confidence or hardly any confidence at all in them? U.S. Supreme Court.


205) CONSCI
I am going to name some institutions in this country. As far as the people running these institutions are concerned, would you say you have a great deal of confidence, only some confidence or hardly any confidence at all in them? Scientific community.


206) CONLEGIS
I am going to name some institutions in this country. As far as the people running these institutions are concerned, would you say you have a great deal of confidence, only some confidence or hardly any confidence at all in them? Congress.


207) CONARMY
I am going to name some institutions in this country. As far as the people running these institutions are concerned, would you say you have a great deal of confidence, only some confidence or hardly any confidence at all in them? Military.


208) OBEY
If you had to choose, which thing on this list would you pick as the most important for a child to learn to prepare him or her for life? To obey.


209) POPULAR
If you had to choose, which thing on this list would you pick as the most important for a child to learn to prepare him or her for life? To be well-liked or popular.


210) THNKSELF
If you had to choose, which thing on this list would you pick as the most important for a child to learn to prepare him or her for life? To think for himself or herself.


211) WORKHARD
If you had to choose, which thing on this list would you pick as the most important for a child to learn to prepare him or her for life? To work hard.


212) HELPOTH
If you had to choose, which thing on this list would you pick as the most important for a child to learn to prepare him or her for life? To help others when they need help.


213) SOCREL
Would you use this card and tell me which answer comes closest to how often you do the following things: spend a social evening with relatives?


214) SOCOMMUN
Would you use this card and tell me which answer comes closest to how often you do the following things: spend a social evening with someone who lives in your neighborhood?


215) SOCFREND
Would you use this card and tell me which answer comes closest to how often you do the following things: spend a social evening with friends who live outside your neighborhood?


216) SOCBAR
Would you use this card and tell me which answer comes closest to how often you do the following things: go to a bar or tavern?


217) AGED
As you know, many older people share a home with their grown children. Do you think this is generally a good idea or a bad idea?


218) AGEDPAR
As you know, many older people move into the homes of their grown children.  Do you think this is generally a good idea or a bad idea?


219) AGEDCHLD
As you know, many grown children move back home to live with their parents. Do you think this is generally a good idea or a bad idea?


220) WEEKSWRK
Now I'd like to ask you about last year. How many weeks did you work either full-time or part-time not counting work around the house? (Include paid vacations and sick leave.)


221) PARTFULL
When you worked in [the previous year], was it usually full- or part-time?


222) JOBLOSE
Thinking about the next 12 months, how likely do you think it is that you will lose your job or be laid off?


223) JOBFIND
About how easy would it be for you to find a job with another employer with approximately the same income and fringe benefits you now have? Would you say very easy, somewhat easy or not at all easy?


224) SATJOB
On the whole, how satisfied are you with the work you do? Would you say you are very satisfied, moderately satisfied, a little dissatisfied or very dissatisfied?


225) RICHWORK
If you were to get enough money to live as comfortably as you would like for the rest of your life, would you continue to work or would you stop working?


226) CLASS
If you were asked to use one of four names for your social class, which would you say you belong in: the lower class, the working class, the middle class or the upper class?


227) RANK
In our society there are groups which tend to be toward the top and those that are toward the bottom. Here we have a scale that runs from top to bottom. Where would you put yourself on this scale?


228) SATFIN
We are interested in how people are getting along financially these days. So far as you and your family are concerned, would you say that you are pretty well satisfied with your present financial situation, more or less satisfied or not satisfied at all?


229) FINALTER
During the last few years, has your financial situation been getting better, worse or has it stayed the same?


230) FINRELA
Compared with American families in general, would you say your family income is far below average, below average, average, above average or far above average?


231) WKSUB
Do you or your spouse have a supervisor on your/their job to whom you/they are directly responsible?


232) WKSUBS
If 'yes' to WKSUB: Does that person have a supervisor on the job to whom he is directly responsible?


233) WKSUB1
Does respondent or spouse or partner have a supervisor?


234) WKSUBS1
Does supervisor have supervisor?


235) WKSUP
In your/your spouse's job, do you/does he/she supervise anyone who is directly responsible to you/him/her?


236) WKSUPS
If 'yes' to WKSUP: Do any of those persons supervise anyone else?


237) WKSUP1
Does respondent or spouse or partner supervise anyone?


238) WKSUPS1
Does subordinate supervise anyone?


239) UNEMP
At any time during the last 10 years, have you been unemployed and looking for work for as long as a month?


240) UNION
Do you or your spouse belong to a labor union?


241) UNION1
Does respondent or spouse or partner belong to a labor union?


242) GETAHEAD
Some people say that people get ahead by their own hard work; others say that lucky breaks or help from other people are more important. Which do you think is most important?


243) PARSOL
Compared to your parents when they were the age you are now, do you think your own standard of living now is much better, somewhat better, about the same, somewhat worse or much worse than theirs was?


244) KIDSSOL
When your children are at the age you are now, do you think their standard of living will be much better, somewhat better, about the same, somewhat worse or much worse than yours is now?


245) FEPOL
Tell me if you agree or disagree with this statement: Most men are better suited emotionally for politics than are most women.


246) ABDEFECT
Please tell me whether or not you think it should be possible for a pregnant woman to obtain a legal abortion: A. If there is a strong chance of serious defect in the baby?


247) ABNOMORE
Please tell me whether or not you think it should be possible for a pregnant woman to obtain a legal abortion: B. If she is married and does not want any more children?


248) ABHLTH
Please tell me whether or not you think it should be possible for a pregnant woman to obtain a legal abortion: C. If the woman's own health is seriously endangered by the pregnancy?


249) ABPOOR
Please tell me whether or not you think it should be possible for a pregnant woman to obtain a legal abortion: D. If the family has a very low income and cannot afford any more children?


250) ABRAPE
Please tell me whether or not you think it should be possible for a pregnant woman to obtain a legal abortion: E. If she became pregnant as a result of rape?


251) ABSINGLE
Please tell me whether or not you think it should be possible for a pregnant woman to obtain legal abortion: F. If she is not married and does not want to marry the man?


252) ABANY
Please tell me whether or not you think it should be possible for a pregnant woman to obtain a legal abortion: G. If the woman wants it for any reason?


253) CHLDIDEL
What do you think is the ideal number of children for a family to have?


254) PILLOK
Do you strongly agree, agree, or strongly disagree that methods of birth control should be available to teenagers between the ages of 14 and 16 if their parents do not approve?


255) SEXEDUC
Would you be for or against sex education in the public schools?


256) DIVLAW
Should divorce in this country be easier or more difficult to obtain than it is now?


257) PREMARSX
There's been a lot of discussion about the way morals and attitudes about sex are changing in this country. If a man and woman have sex relations before marriage, do you think it is always wrong, almost always wrong, wrong only sometimes or not wrong at all?


258) TEENSEX
There's been a lot of discussion about the way morals and attitudes about sex are changing in this country. If [a man and a woman] are in their early teens, say 14 to 16 years old, in that case, do you think sex relations before marriage are always wrong, almost always wrong, wrong only sometimes or not wrong at all?


259) XMARSEX
What is your opinion about a married person having sexual relations with someone other than the marriage partner. Is it always wrong, almost always wrong, wrong only sometimes, or not wrong at all?


260) HOMOSEX
What about sexual relations between two adults of the same sex? Do you think it is always wrong, almost always wrong, sometimes wrong, not at all wrong?


261) PORNLAW
Which of these statements comes closest to your feelings about pornography laws?


262) XMOVIE
Have you seen an X-rated movie in the last year?


263) SPANKING
Do you strongly agree, agree, disagree or strongly disagree that it is sometimes necessary to discipline a child with a good, hard, spanking?


264) LETDIE1
When a person has a disease that cannot be cured, do you think doctors should be allowed by law to end the patient's life by some painless means if the patient and his family request it?


265) SUICIDE1
Do you think a person has the right to end his or her own life if this person has an incurable disease?


266) SUICIDE2
Do you think a person has the right to end his or her own life if this person has gone bankrupt?


267) SUICIDE3
Do you think a person has the right to end his or her own life if this person has dishonored his or her family?


268) SUICIDE4
Do you think a person has the right to end his or her own life if this person is tired of living and ready to die?


269) SUINUM
The next questions deal with a difficult topic that may be sensitive for you.  It is not clearly understood how a relative or friend's death by suicide may affect one's life afterwards. Please answer these questions as best as you can, and you can decline to answer any question if you are uncomfortable. Over your lifetime how many people have you known personally that died by suicide? Please tell us the total number of people that died by suicide.


270) SUINUM1
Have you known personally two or more people, one person, or no people that died by suicide over your lifetime?


271) SUIREL1
Thinking about the person you knew best that died by suicide, please tell me the letter of the category on the card which most clearly describes your relationship to that person?


272) SUINEG1
[Thinking about the person you knew best that died by suicide, please tell me the letter of the category on the card which most clearly describes your relationship to that person?] Was that person's death emotionally distressing to you?


273) SUICLSE1
[Thinking about the person you knew best that died by suicide, please tell me the letter of the category on the card which most clearly describes your relationship to that person? How close were you to closest suicide victim?] On a scale of 1 to 5 how close did you feel to that person at the time of his or her death? Use 1 for not close at all and 5 for very close.


274) SUITIME1
[Thinking about the person you knew best that died by suicide, please tell me the letter of the category on the card which most clearly describes your relationship to that person?] How many months and years has it been since that person's death? 


275) SUIMTHS1
[Thinking about the person you knew best that died by suicide, please tell me the letter of the category on the card which most clearly describes your relationship to that person?] How many months?


276) SUIYRS1
[Thinking about the person you knew best that died by suicide, please tell me the letter of the category on the card which most clearly describes your relationship to that person?] How many years?


277) SUIREL2
Please tell me the relationship category of the person you knew second best that died by suicide.


278) SUINEG2
[Please tell me the relationship category of the person you knew second best that died by suicide.] Was that person's death emotionally distressing to you?


279) SUICLSE2
[Please tell me the relationship category of the person you knew second best that died by suicide.] On a scale of 1 to 5 how close did you feel to that person at the time of his or her death? Use 1 for not close at all and 5 for very close.


280) SUITIME2
[Please tell me the relationship category of the person you knew second best that died by suicide.] How many months and years has it been since that person's death?


281) SUIMTHS2
[Please tell me the relationship category of the person you knew second best that died by suicide.] How many months has it been since that person's death?


282) SUIYRS2
[Please tell me the relationship category of the person you knew second best that died by suicide.] How many years has it been since that person's death?


283) POLHITOK
Are there any situations you can imagine in which you would approve of a policeman striking an adult male citizen? [If 'Yes' or 'Don't know', ask POLABUSE-POLATTAK]


284) POLABUSE
[If 'Yes' OR 'Don't know' to POLHITOK] Would you approve of a policeman striking a citizen who had said vulgar and obscene things to the policeman?


285) POLMURDR
[If 'Yes' OR 'Don't know' to POLHITOK] Would you approve of a policeman striking a citizen who was being questioned as a suspect in a murder case?


286) POLESCAP
[If 'Yes' OR 'Don't know' to POLHITOK] Would you approve of a policeman striking a citizen who was attempting to escape from custody?


287) POLATTAK
[If 'Yes' OR 'Don't know' to POLHITOK] Would you approve of a policeman striking a citizen who was attacking the policeman with his fists?


288) FEAR
Is there any area right around here -- that is, within a mile -- where you would be afraid to walk alone at night?


289) OWNGUN
Do you happen to have in your home (or garage) any guns or revolvers?


290) PISTOL
If 'yes' to OWNGUN: Is it a pistol, shotgun, rifle or what? Code all that apply. Pistol


291) SHOTGUN
If 'yes' to OWNGUN: Is it a pistol, shotgun, rifle or what? Code all that apply. Shotgun


292) RIFLE
If 'yes' to OWNGUN: Is it a pistol, shotgun, rifle or what? Code all that apply. Rifle


293) ROWNGUN
Do any of these guns personally belong to you?


294) HUNT
Do you or your spouse go hunting?


295) HUNT1
Does respondent or spouse or partner hunt?


296) NEWS
How often do you read the newspaper: every day, a few times a week, once a week, less than once a week or never?


297) TVHOURS
On the average day, about how many hours do you personally watch television?


298) PHONE
Do you have a telephone?


299) COOP
In general, what was the respondent's attitude toward the interview?


300) COMPREND
Was respondent's understanding of the questions good, fair or poor?


301) FORM
A split ballot was used in the 1973, 1974, 1976, 1978, 1980 and 1982+ surveys. The variant or 'Y' wordings appear on Form 2, the 'Z' wordings appear on Form 3; and the standard GSS wordings appear on Form 1


302) FECHLD
Now I'm going to read several more statements. As I read each one, please tell me whether you strongly agree, agree, disagree or strongly disagree with it. A working mother can establish just as warm and secure a relationship with her children as a mother who does not work.


303) FEPRESCH
Now I'm going to read several more statements. As I read each one, please tell me whether you strongly agree, agree, disagree or strongly disagree with it. A preschool child is likely to suffer if his or her mother works.


304) FEFAM
Now I'm going to read several more statements. As I read each one, please tell me whether you strongly agree, agree, disagree or strongly disagree with it. It is much better for everyone involved if the man is the achiever outside the home and the woman takes care of the home and family.


305) RACDIF1
On the average African Americans have worse jobs, income and housing than white people. Do you think these differences are mainly due to discrimination?


306) RACDIF2
On the average African Americans have worse jobs, income and housing than white people. Do you think these differences are because most (Negroes/Blacks/African-Americans) have less in-born ability to learn?


307) RACDIF3
On the average African Americans have worse jobs, income and housing than white people. Do you think these differences are because most (Negroes/Blacks/African-Americans) don't have the chance for education that it takes to rise out of poverty?


308) RACDIF4
On the average African Americans have worse jobs, income and housing than white people. Do you think these differences are because most (Negroes/Blacks/African-Americans) just don't have the motivation or willpower to pull themselves up out of poverty?


309) RUSHED
In general, how do you feel about your time--would you say you always feel rushed even to do things you have to do, only sometimes feel rushed, or almost never feel rushed.


310) BORED
How often would you say you have time on your hands that you don't know what to do with--quite often, just now and then, or almost never?


311) STRESSWK
During the past two weeks, would you say that you experienced a lot of stress, a moderate amount of stress, relatively little stress, or almost no stress at all?


312) HELPPOOR
I'd like to talk with you about issues some people tell us are important. Some people think that the government in Washington should do everything possible to improve the standard of living of all poor Americans; they are at point 1 on this card. Other people think it's not the government's responsibility, and that each person should take care of himself; they are at point 5. Where would you place yourself on this scale or haven't you made up your mind on this?


313) HELPNOT
Some people think that the government in Washington is trying to do too many things that should be left to individuals and private business. Others disagree and think that the government should do even more to solve our country's problems. Still others have opinions somewhere in between. Where would you place yourself on this scale or haven't you made up your mind on this?


314) HELPSICK
In general, some people think that it is the responsibility of the government in Washington to see to it that people have help in paying for doctors and hospital bills. Others think that these matters are not the responsibility of the federal government and that people should take care of these things themselves. Where would you place yourself on this scale or haven't you made up your mind on this?


315) HELPBLK
Some people think that (Blacks/Negroes/African-Americans) have been discriminated against for so long that the government has a special obligation to help improve their living standards. Others believe that the government should not be giving special treatment to (Blacks/Negroes/African-Americans). Where would you place yourself on this scale or haven't you made up your mind on this?


316) GOD
Which statement comes closest to expressing what you believe about God?


317) REBORN
Would you say you have been 'born again' or have had a 'born again' experience? That is, a turning point in your life when you committed yourself to Christ?


318) SAVESOUL
Have you ever tried to encourage someone to believe in Jesus Christ or to accept Jesus Christ as his or her savior?


319) WLTHWHTS
Now I have some questions about different groups in our society. I'm going to show you a seven-point scale on which the characteristics of people in a group can be rated. A score of 1 means that you think almost all of the people in that group are 'rich.' A score of 7 means that you think almost everyone in the group are 'poor.' A score of 4 means you think that the group is not toward one end or another, and of course you may choose any number in between that comes closest to where you think people in that group stand. Where would you rate whites, in general, on this scale?


320) WLTHBLKS
Now I have some questions about different groups in our society. I'm going to show you a seven-point scale on which the characteristics of people in a group can be rated. A score of means that you think almost all of the people in that group are 'rich.' A score of 7 means that you think almost everyone in the group are 'poor.' A score of 4 means you think that the group is not toward one end or another, and of course you may choose any number in between that comes closest to where you think people in that group stand. Where would you rate blacks, in general, on this scale?


321) WORKWHTS
I'm going to show you a seven-point scale on which the characteristics of people in a group can be rated. A score of 1 means that you think almost all people in that group are 'hard-working.' A score of 7 means that you think almost all of the people in the group are 'lazy.' A score of 4 means you think that the group is not toward one end or another, and of course you may choose any number in between that comes closest to where you think people in this group stand. Where would you rate whites, in general, on this scale?


322) WORKBLKS
I'm going to show you a seven-point scale on which the characteristics of people in a group can be rated. A score of 1 means that you think almost all people in that group are 'hard-working.' A score of 7 means that you think almost all of the people in the group are 'lazy.' A score of 4 means you think that the group is not towards one end or another, and of course you may choose any number in between that comes closest to where you think people in this group stand. Where would you rate blacks in general on this scale?


323) INTLWHTS
I'm going to show you a seven-point scale on which the characteristics of people in a group can be rated. A score of 1 means that you think almost all people in that group are 'unintelligent.' A score of 7 means that you think almost all of the people in the group are 'intelligent.' A score of 4 means you think that the group is not toward one end or another, and of course you may choose any number in between that comes closest to where you think people in this group stand. Where would you rate whites, in general, on this scale?


324) INTLBLKS
I'm going to show you a seven-point scale on which the characteristics of people in a group can be rated. A score of 1 means that you think almost all people in that group are 'unintelligent.' A score of 7 means that you think almost all of the people in the group are 'intelligent.' A score of 4 means you think that the group is not toward one end or another, and of course you may choose any number in between that comes closest to where you think people in this group stand. Where would you rate blacks, in general, on this scale?


325) LIVEBLKS
Now, I'm going to ask you about different types of contact with various groups of people. In each situation would you please tell me whether you would be very much in favor of it happening, somewhat in favor, neither in favor nor opposed to it happening, somewhat opposed or very much opposed to it happening? Living in a neighborhood where half of your neighbors were black?


326) LIVEWHTS
Now I'm going to ask you about different types of contact with various groups of people. In each situation would you please tell me whether you would be very much in favor of it happening, somewhat in favor, neither in favor nor opposed to it happening, somewhat opposed or very much opposed to it happening? Living in a neighborhood where half of your neighbors were whites?


327) MARBLK
What about having a close relative marry a black person? Would you be in very favor of it happening, somewhat in favor, neither in favor nor opposed to it happening, somewhat opposed or very opposed to it happening?


328) MARASIAN
What about having a close relative marry an Asian American person? Would you be in very favor of it happening, somewhat in favor, neither in favor nor opposed to it happening, somewhat opposed or very opposed to it happening?


329) MARHISP
What about having a close relative marry a Hispanic American person? Would you be in very favor of it happening, somewhat in favor, neither in favor nor opposed to it happening, somewhat opposed or very opposed to it happening?


330) MARWHT
What about having a close relative marry a white person? Would you be in very favor of it happening, somewhat in favor, neither in favor nor opposed to it happening, somewhat opposed or very opposed to it happening?


331) RACWORK
Are the people who work where you work all white, mostly white, about half and half, mostly black or all black?


332) DISCAFF
What do you think the chances are these days that a white person won't get a job or promotion while an equally or less qualified black person gets one instead?


333) FEJOBAFF
Some people say that because of past discrimination, women should be given preference in hiring and promotion. Others say that such preference in hiring and promotion of women is wrong because it discriminates against men. What about your opinion -- are you for or against preferential hiring and promotion of women? IF FOR: Do you favor preference in hiring and promotion strongly or not strongly? IF AGAINST: Do you oppose preference in hiring and promotion strongly or not strongly?


334) DISCAFFM
What do you think the chances are these days that a man won't get a job or a promotion while an equally or less qualified woman gets one instead?


335) DISCAFFW
What do you think the chances are these days that a woman won't get a job or promotion while an equally or less qualified man gets one instead?


336) FEHIRE
Now I'm going to read several statements. As I read each one, please tell me whether you strongly agree, agree, neither agree nor disagree, disagree or strongly disagree. For example, here is the statement: Because of past discrimination, employers should make special efforts to hire and promote qualified women.


337) EVBRKDWN
Have you ever felt that you were going to have a nervous breakdown?


338) LOTR1
Please answer the following questions about yourself by indicating the extent of your agreement: Do you agree or disagree that... In uncertain times, I usually expect best.


339) LOTR2
Please answer the following questions about yourself by indicating the extent of your agreement: Do you agree or disagree that... If something can go wrong for me, it will.


340) LOTR3
Please answer the following questions about yourself by indicating the extent of your agreement: Do you agree or disagree that... I'm always optimistic about my future.


341) LOTR4
Please answer the following questions about yourself by indicating the extent of your agreement: Do you agree or disagree that... I hardly ever expect things to go my way.


342) LOTR5
Please answer the following questions about yourself by indicating the extent of your agreement: Do you agree or disagree that... I rarely count on good things happening to me.


343) LOTR6
Please answer the following questions about yourself by indicating the extent of your agreement: Do you agree or disagree that... Overall, I expect more good things to happen to me than bad.


344) HOPE1
Using the scale on the showcard, please select the response that best describes how you think about yourself right now.  Please focus on yourself and what is going on in your life at this moment.  If I should find myself in a jam, I could think of many ways to get out of it.


345) HOPE2
Using the scale on the showcard, please select the response that best describes how you think about yourself right now.  Please focus on yourself and what is going on in your life at this moment. At the present time, I am energetically pursuing my goals.


346) HOPE3
Using the scale on the showcard, please select the response that best describes how you think about yourself right now.  Please focus on yourself and what is going on in your life at this moment. There are lots of ways around any problem that I am facing now.


347) HOPE4
Using the scale on the showcard, please select the response that best describes how you think about yourself right now.  Please focus on yourself and what is going on in your life at this moment. Right now, I see myself as being pretty successful.


348) HOPE5
Using the scale on the showcard, please select the response that best describes how you think about yourself right now.  Please focus on yourself and what is going on in your life at this moment. I can think of many ways to reach my current goals.


349) HOPE6
Using the scale on the showcard, please select the response that best describes how you think about yourself right now.  Please focus on yourself and what is going on in your life at this moment. At this time, I am meeting the goals I have set for myself.


350) RELPERSN
To what extent do you consider yourself a religious person? Are you very religious, moderately religious, slightly religious or not religious at all?


351) SPRTPRSN
To what extent do you consider yourself a spiritual person? Are you very spiritual, moderately spiritual, slightly spiritual or not spiritual at all?


352) PRFMNCE
With the exception of elementary or high school performances, did you go to a live music, theater, or dance performance, during the last 12 months?


353) ARTEXBT
During the last 12 months, did you go to an art exhibit, such as paintings, sculpture, textiles, graphic design, or photography?


354) PRFMMUS
You said that in the last 12 months you attended a performance. I'd like to ask you a few questions about the last time you did this type of activity.  Was this a music, dance, or theater performance? Music


355) PRFMDAN
You said that in the last 12 months you attended a performance. I'd like to ask you a few questions about the last time you did this type of activity.  Was this a music, dance, or theater performance? Dance


356) PRFMTHE
You said that in the last 12 months you attended a performance. I'd like to ask you a few questions about the last time you did this type of activity.  Was this a music, dance, or theater performance? Theater


357) PRFMATT
Did you attend this performance alone, with one other person, or with two or more other people?


358) PRFMATT1
Did any of the following go with you [to the performance]? Spouse or partner


359) PRFMATT2
Did any of the following go with you [to the performance]? Child


360) PRFMATT3
Did any of the following go with you [to the performance]? Friend


361) PRFMATT4
Did any of the following go with you [to the performance]? Relative


362) PRFMATT5
Did any of the following go with you [to the performance]? Someone else


363) PRFMFREE
Was the performance you attended free, or was there an admission fee?


364) PRFMWHY1
People attend performances for different reasons. How big a reason was low cost in your decision to attend this performance? Was it a major reason, a minor reason, or not a reason at all?


365) PRFMWHY2
People attend performances for different reasons. How big a reason was wanting to experience high quality art in your decision to attend this performance? Was it a major reason, a minor reason, or not a reason at all?


366) PRFMWHY3
People attend performances for different reasons. How big a reason was wanting to socialize with family or friends in your decision to attend this performance? Was it a major reason, a minor reason, or not a reason at all?


367) PRFMWHY4
People attend performances for different reasons. How big a reason was wanting to learn about or celebrate your or your family's cultural heritage in your decision to attend this performance? Was it a major reason, a minor reason, or not a reason at all?


368) PRFMWHY5
People attend performances for different reasons. How big a reason was wanting to support a community organization or event in your decision to attend this performance? Was it a major reason, a minor reason, or not a reason at all?


369) PRFMWHY6
People attend performances for different reasons. How big a reason was wanting to gain knowledge or learn something new in your decision to attend this performance? Was it a major reason, a minor reason, or not a reason at all?


370) PRFMWHY7
People attend performances for different reasons.  How big a reason was wanting to experience a performance at this location in your decision to attend this performance? Was it a major reason,a minor reason, or not a reason at all?


371) PRFMWHY8
People attend performances for different reasons. How big a reason was wanting to see a specific, individual performer in your decision to attend this performance? Was it a major reason, a minor reason, or not a reason at all?


372) PRFMWHY9
People attend performances for different reasons. Was there some other major reason for your decision to attend that is not shown on the card?


373) PRFMWHY0
People attend performances for different reasons. Was there some other major reason for your decision to attend that is not shown on the card? Please specify:


374) ARTATT
You said that in the last 12 months you attended an exhibit. I'd like to ask you a few questions about the last time you did this type of activity. Did you attend this exhibit alone, with one other person, or with two or more other people?


375) ARTATT1
You said that in the last 12 months you attended an exhibit. I'd like to ask you a few questions about the last time you did this type of activity. Did any of the following go with you? Spouse or partner


376) ARTATT2
You said that in the last 12 months you attended an exhibit. I'd like to ask you a few questions about the last time you did this type of activity. Did any of the following go with you? Child


377) ARTATT3
You said that in the last 12 months you attended an exhibit. I'd like to ask you a few questions about the last time you did this type of activity. Did any of the following go with you? Friend


378) ARTATT4
You said that in the last 12 months you attended an exhibit. I'd like to ask you a few questions about the last time you did this type of activity. Did any of the following go with you? Relative


379) ARTATT5
You said that in the last 12 months you attended an exhibit. I'd like to ask you a few questions about the last time you did this type of activity. Did any of the following go with you? Someone else


380) ARTFREE
Was the exhibit you attended free, or was there an admission fee?


381) ARTWHY1
People attend exhibits for different reasons. How big a reason was low cost in your decision to attend this exhibit? Was it a major reason, a minor reason, or not a reason at all?


382) ARTWHY2
People attend exhibits for different reasons. How big a reason was wanting to experience high quality art in your decision to attend this exhibit? Was it a major reason, a minor reason, or not a reason at all?


383) ARTWHY3
People attend exhibits for different reasons. How big a reason was wanting to socialize with family or friends in your decision to attend this exhibit? Was it a major reason, a minor reason, or not a reason at all?


384) ARTWHY4
People attend exhibits for different reasons. How big a reason was wanting to learn about or celebrate your or your family's cultural heritage in your decision to attend this exhibit? Was it a major reason, a minor reason, or not a reason at all?


385) ARTWHY5
People attend exhibits for different reasons. How big a reason was wanting to support a community organization or event in your decision to attend this exhibit? Was it a major reason, a minor reason, or not a reason at all?


386) ARTWHY6
People attend exhibits for different reasons. How big a reason was wanting to gain knowledge or learn something new in your decision to attend this exhibit? Was it a major reason, a minor reason, or not a reason at all?


387) ARTWHY7
People attend exhibits for different reasons. How big a reason was wanting to see an exhibit at this location in your decision to attend this exhibit? Was it a major reason, a minor reason, or not a reason at all?


388) ARTWHY8
People attend exhibits for different reasons. Was there some other major reason for your decision to attend that is not shown on the card?


389) ARTWHY9
People attend exhibits for different reasons. Was there some other major reason for your decision to attend that is not shown on the card? Please specify:


390) NOGO
During the last 12 months, was there a performance or exhibit that you wanted to go to but did not?


391) NOGO1
During the last 12 months, was there a performance or exhibit that you wanted to go to but did not? Was it a performance or an exhibit?


392) PRFMCOST
Thinking about the most recent performance you wanted to attend but did not, which of the following factors were important in your decision not to attend? Cost too much.


393) PRFMINT
Thinking about the most recent performance you wanted to attend but did not, which of the following factors were important in your decision not to attend? Programs or events were not of not of interest.


394) PRFMTRVL
Thinking about the most recent performance you wanted to attend but did not, which of the following factors were important in your decision not to attend? Too difficult to get there.


395) PRFMGST
Thinking about the most recent performance you wanted to attend but did not, which of the following factors were important in your decision not to attend? Could not find anyone to go with.


396) PRFMTIME
Thinking about the most recent performance you wanted to attend but did not, which of the following factors were important in your decision not to attend? Could not find the time.


397) PRFMLOC
Thinking about the most recent performance you wanted to attend but did not, which of the following factors were important in your decision not to attend? Did not want to go to that location.


398) PRFMOTHR
Thinking about the most recent performance you wanted to attend but did not, which of the following factors were important in your decision not to attend? Some other reason not shown.


399) PRFMTHR1
Thinking about the most recent performance you wanted to attend but did not, which of the following factors were important in your decision not to attend? Some other reason not shown. Please specify: (PRFMOTHR1)


400) ARTCOST
Thinking about the most recent exhibit you wanted to attend but did not, which of the following factors were important in your decision not to attend? Cost too much.


401) ARTINT
Thinking about the most recent exhibit you wanted to attend but did not, which of the following factors were important in your decision not to attend? Programs or events were not of interest.


402) ARTTRVL
Thinking about the most recent exhibit you wanted to attend but did not, which of the following factors were important in your decision not to attend? Too difficult to get there.


403) ARTGST
Thinking about the most recent exhibit you wanted to attend but did not, which of the following factors were important in your decision not to attend? Could not find anyone to go with.


404) ARTTIME
Thinking about the most recent exhibit you wanted to attend but did not, which of the following factors were important in your decision not to attend? Could not find the time.


405) ARTLOC
Thinking about the most recent exhibit you wanted to attend but did not, which of the following factors were important in your decision not to attend? Did not want to go to that location.


406) ARTOTHR
Thinking about the most recent exhibit you wanted to attend but did not, which of the following factors were important in your decision not to attend? Some other reason not shown.


407) PRFMMOTH
[For PRFMCOST-PRFMOTHR] Of these factors, which one was the most important in your decision not to attend [the performance]? (PRFMMOSTOTH)


408) ARTMOTH
[For ARTCOST-ARTOTHR] Of these factors, which one was the most important in your decision not to attend [the art exhibit]? (ARTMOSTOTH)


409) OTHLANG
Can you speak a language other than English?


410) OTHLANG1
What other language(s) do you speak? First response.


411) OTHLANG2
What other language(s) do you speak?  Second response.


412) SPKLANG
How well do you speak that language?


413) BETRLANG
Which language do you speak more fluently?


414) COMPUSE
Do you personally ever use a computer at home, at work or at some other location?


415) WEBMOB
Do you have access to the Internet or World Wide Web in your home through an Internet-enabled mobile device like a smart phone, PDA or BlackBerry?


416) EMAILMIN
About how many minutes or hours per week do you spend sending and answering electronic mail or e-mail?


417) EMAILHR
About how many minutes or hours per week do you spend sending and answering electronic mail or e-mail?


418) USEWWW
Other than for e-mail, do you ever use the Internet or World Wide Web?


419) WWWHR
Not counting e-mail, about how many minutes or hours per week do you use the web? (Include time you spend visiting regular web sites and time spent using interactive Internet services like chat rooms, Usenet groups, discussion forums, bulletin boards and the like.) Hours per week?


420) WWWMIN
Not counting e-mail, about how many minutes or hours per week do you use the web? (Include time you spend visiting regular web sites and time spent using interactive Internet services like chat rooms, Usenet groups, discussion forums, bulletin boards and the like.) Minutes per week?


421) INTUSE
Do you use the internet or web-enabled applications, known as APPS, for more than email, at least occasionally?


422) INTSTART
In what year did you start using the internet or web-enabled applications/APPS?


423) INTMBILE
Do you access the internet or web-enabled applications/APPS on a cell phone, smartphone, tablet or other mobile handheld device, at least occasionally?


424) INTRECNT
Did you happen to use the internet or web-enabled applications/APPS yesterday?


425) TWITTER
Which of the following social networking or social media sites are you a member or regular user of? Twitter.


426) FACEBOOK
Which of the following social networking or social media sites are you a member or regular user of? Facebook.


427) INSTAGRM
Which of the following social networking or social media sites are you a member or regular user of? Instagram.


428) LINKEDIN
Which of the following social networking or social media sites are you a member or regular user of? LinkedIn.


429) SNAPCHAT
Which of the following social networking or social media sites are you a member or regular user of? Snapchat.


430) TUMBLR
Which of the following social networking or social media sites are you a member or regular user of? Tumblr.


431) WHATSAPP
Which of the following social networking or social media sites are you a member or regular user of? WhatsApp.


432) GOOGLESN
Which of the following social networking or social media sites are you a member or regular user of? Google+ - Google's social network platform.


433) PINTERST
Which of the following social networking or social media sites are you a member or regular user of? Pinterest.


434) FLICKR
Which of the following social networking or social media sites are you a member or regular user of? Flickr.


435) VINE
Which of the following social networking or social media sites are you a member or regular user of? Vine.


436) CLSSMTES
Which of the following social networking or social media sites are you a member or regular user of? Classmates.


437) SNSMOTH1
Are there any other social networking or social media sites that you a member or regular user of?


438) SNSMOT2A
Are there any other social networking or social media sites that you a member or regular user of? First other social network mentioned.


439) SNSMOT2B
Are there any other social networking or social media sites that you a member or regular user of? Second other social network mentioned.


440) SNSMOT2C
Are there any other social networking or social media sites that you a member or regular user of? Third other social network mentioned.


441) SNSMNEW
Which social network did you join most recently?


442) SNSMYEAR
In what year did you join [Social Network picked in SNSMFRST]?


443) SNSMFRST
Which social network did you join first?


444) INTWKDYM
How many minutes or hours do you spend actively using the Internet or web-enabled applications/APPS on a typical weekday? Minutes:


445) INTWKDYH
How many minutes or hours do you spend actively using the Internet or web-enabled applications/APPS on a typical weekday? Hours:


446) INTWKENM
How many minutes or hours do you spend actively using the Internet or web-enabled applications/APPS on a typical weekend day? Minutes:


447) INTWKENH
How many minutes or hours do you spend actively using the Internet or web-enabled applications/APPS on a typical weekend day? Hours:


448) HUCLEAN
How clean was the interior of the housing unit?


449) PAIDHOW
In this section, we ask about your work hours and how you are paid. When referring to jobs, we are referring to jobs for which you work for pay, not volunteer work, unpaid housework, or other unpaid activities. When we refer to work hours, we ask you to include all hours performed for a paid job, including any extra hours, overtime, work you did at home for your paid job, and hours that may not have been directly billable or compensated. Are you salaried, paid by the hour, or paid some other way? If you have more than one job, think of the job in which you spend the most hours working each week.


450) USUALHRS
In this section, we ask about your work hours and how you are paid. When referring to jobs, we are referring to jobs for which you work for pay, not volunteer work, unpaid housework, or other unpaid activities. When we refer to work hours, we ask you to include all hours performed for a paid job, including any extra hours, overtime, work you did at home for your paid job, and hours that may not have been directly billable or compensated. How many hours a week do you usually work, at all paid jobs?


451) MOSTHRS
In the last month, what is the greatest number of hours you worked in a week, at all paid jobs? Please consider all hours, including any extra hours, overtime, work you did at home for your job, and time you spent on work that may not have been directly billable or compensated.


452) LEASTHRS
In the last month, what is the fewest number of hours you worked in a week, at all paid jobs? Please do not include weeks in which you missed some or all hours because of illness, vacation, or other personal obligations.


453) SETHRS
Which of the following statements best describes how your working hours are decided? In this question, working hours refers to the total number of hours you work each week, not the time you start and finish work each day.


454) ADVSCHED
How far in advance do you usually know what days and hours you will need to work?


455) MNTLHLTH
Now thinking about your mental health, which includes stress, depression, and problems with emotions, for how many days during the past 30 days was your mental health not good?


456) CESD1
I will now read out a list of the ways you might have felt or behaved during the past week. Using this card, please tell me how much of the time during the past week... you felt depressed?


457) CESD2
I will now read out a list of the ways you might have felt or behaved during the past week. Using this card, please tell me how much of the time during the past week... your sleep was restless?


458) CESD3
I will now read out a list of the ways you might have felt or behaved during the past week. Using this card, please tell me how much of the time during the past week... you were happy?


459) CESD4
I will now read out a list of the ways you might have felt or behaved during the past week. Using this card, please tell me how much of the time during the past week... you felt lonely?


460) CESD5
I will now read out a list of the ways you might have felt or behaved during the past week. Using this card, please tell me how much of the time during the past week... you felt sad?


461) NUMEMPS
If you (are/were) self-employed and (have/had) employees, how many employees (do/did) you have?


462) NEWSFROM
We are interested in how people get information about events in the news. Where do you get most of your information about current news events -- newspapers, magazines, the Internet, books or other printed materials, TV, radio, government agencies, family, friends, colleagues or some other source?


463) SCIFROM
We are interested in how people get information about science and technology. Where do you get most of your information about science and technology -- newspapers, magazines, the Internet, books or other printed materials, TV, radio, government agencies, family, friends, colleagues or some other source?


464) SEEKSCI
If you wanted to learn about scientific issues such as global warming or biotechnology, where would you get information -- newspapers, magazines, the Internet, books or other printed materials, TV, radio, government agencies, family, friends, colleagues or some other source?


465) NEXTGEN
I'm going to read to you some statements like those you might find in a newspaper or magazine article. For each statement, please tell me if you strongly agree, agree, disagree or strongly disagree. Because of science and technology, there will be more opportunities for the next generation.


466) TOOFAST
I'm going to read to you some statements like those you might find in a newspaper or magazine article. For each statement, please tell me if you strongly agree, agree, disagree or strongly disagree. Science makes our way of life change too fast.


467) ADVFRONT
I'm going to read to you some statements like those you might find in a newspaper or magazine article. For each statement, please tell me if you strongly agree, agree, disagree or strongly disagree. Even if it brings no immediate benefits, scientific research that advances the frontiers of knowledge is necessary and should be supported by the federal government.


468) ASTROLGY
Now, for a new subject. Do you ever read a horoscope or your personal astrology report?


469) ASTROSCI
Would you say that astrology is very scientific, sort of scientific or not at all scientific?


470) SCIBNFTS
Now for another type of question. People have frequently noted that scientific research has produced benefits and harmful results. Would you say that, on balance, the benefits of scientific research have outweighed the harmful results, or have the harmful results of scientific research been greater than its benefits?


471) BALPOS
People have frequently noted that scientific research has produced benefits and harmful results. Would you say that the balance has been strongly in favor of the benefits or only slightly?


472) BALNEG
People have frequently noted that scientific research has produced benefits and harmful results. Would you say that the balance has been strongly in favor of the harmful results or only slightly?


473) SCISTUDY
Now, for a slightly different type of question. When you read news stories, you see certain sets of words and terms. We are interested in how many people recognize certain kinds of terms. First, some articles refer to the results of a scientific study. When you read or hear the term scientific study, do you have a clear understanding of what it means, a general sense of what it means or little understanding of what it means?


474) SCITEXT
In your own words, could you tell me what it means to study something scientifically?


475) EXPDESGN
Now, please think about this situation. Two scientists want to know if a certain drug is effective against high blood pressure. The first scientist wants to give the drug to 1,000 people with high blood pressure and see how many of them experience lower blood pressure levels. The second scientist wants to give the drug to 500 people with high blood pressure, and not give the drug to another 500 people with high blood pressure, and see how many in both groups experience lower blood pressure levels. Which is the better way to test this drug?


476) EXPTEXT
Why is it better to test the drug this way?


477) ODDS1
Now, think about this situation. A doctor tells a couple that their genetic makeup means that they've got a one-in-four chance of having a child with an inherited illness. Does this mean that if their first child has the illness, the next three will not have the illness?


478) ODDS2
Now, think about this situation. A doctor tells a couple that their genetic makeup means that they've got a one-in-four chance of having a child with an inherited illness. Does this mean that each of the couple's children will have the same risk of suffering from the illness?


479) HOTCORE
Now, I would like to ask you a few short questions like those you might see on a television game show. For each statement that I read, please tell me if it is true or false. If you don't know or aren't sure, just tell me so, and we will skip to the next question. Remember true, false or don't know. First, the center of the earth is very hot. (Is that true or false?)


480) RADIOACT
Now, I would like to ask you a few short questions like those you might see on a television game show. For each statement that I read, please tell me if it is true or false. If you don't know or aren't sure, just tell me so, and we will skip to the next question. Remember true, false or don't know. All radioactivity is man-made. (Is that true or false?)


481) BOYORGRL
Now, I would like to ask you a few short questions like those you might see on a television game show. For each statement that I read, please tell me if it is true or false. If you don't know or aren't sure, just tell me so, and we will skip to the next question. Remember true, false or don't know. It is the father's gene that decides whether the baby is a boy or a girl. (Is that true or false?)


482) LASERS
Now, I would like to ask you a few short questions like those you might see on a television game show. For each statement that I read, please tell me if it is true or false. If you don't know or aren't sure, just tell me so, and we will skip to the next question. Remember true, false or don't know. Lasers work by focusing sound waves. (Is that true or false?)


483) ELECTRON
Now, I would like to ask you a few short questions like those you might see on a television game show. For each statement that I read, please tell me if it is true or false. If you don't know or aren't sure, just tell me so, and we will skip to the next question. Remember true, false or don't know. Electrons are smaller than atoms. (Is that true or false?)


484) VIRUSES
Now, I would like to ask you a few short questions like those you might see on a television game show. For each statement that I read, please tell me if it is true or false. If you don't know or aren't sure, just tell me so, and we will skip to the next question. Remember true, false or don't know. Antibiotics kill viruses as well as bacteria. (Is that true or false?)


485) BIGBANG
Now, I would like to ask you a few short questions like those you might see on a television game show. For each statement that I read, please tell me if it is true or false. If you don't know or aren't sure, just tell me so, and we will skip to the next question. Remember true, false or don't know. The universe began with a huge explosion. (Is that true or false?)


486) BIGBANG1
Now, I would like to ask you a few short questions like those you might see on a television game show. For each statement that I read, please tell me if it is true or false. If you don't know or aren't sure, just tell me so, and we will skip to the next question. Remember true, false or don't know. According to astronomers, the universe began with a huge explosion. (Is that true or false?)


487) BIGBANG2
Now, I would like to ask you a few short questions like those you might see on a television game show. For each statement that I read, please tell me if it is true or false. If you don't know or aren't sure, just tell me so, and we will skip to the next question. Remember true, false or don't know. The universe has been expanding ever since it began. (Is that true or false?)


488) CONDRIFT
Now, I would like to ask you a few short questions like those you might see on a television game show. For each statement that I read, please tell me if it is true or false. If you don't know or aren't sure, just tell me so, and we will skip to the next question. Remember true, false or don't know. The continents on which we live have been moving their locations for millions of years and will continue to move in the future. (Is that true or false?)


489) EVOLVED
Now, I would like to ask you a few short questions like those you might see on a television game show. For each statement that I read, please tell me if it is true or false. If you don't know or aren't sure, just tell me so, and we will skip to the next question. Remember true, false or don't know. Human beings, as we know them today, developed from earlier species of animals. (Is that true or false?)


490) EVOLVED2
Now, I would like to ask you a few short questions like those you might see on a television game show. For each statement that I read, please tell me if it is true or false. If you don't know or aren't sure, just tell me so, and we will skip to the next question. Remember true, false or don't know. Elephants, as we know them today, descended from earlier species of animals. (Is that true or false?)


491) EARTHSUN
Now, I would like to ask you a few short questions like those you might see on a television game show. For each statement that I read, please tell me if it is true or false. If you don't know or aren't sure, just tell me so, and we will skip to the next question. Remember true, false or don't know. Now, does the earth go around the sun or does the sun go around the earth? (Is that true or false?)


492) SOLARREV
Now, I would like to ask you a few short questions like those you might see on a television game show. How long does it take for the earth to go around the sun: one day, one month or one year? (Is that true or false?)


493) COLDEG1
What is the highest degree you have earned?


494) MAJORCOL
In what field was that degree?


495) COLSCI
Have you ever taken any college-level science courses?


496) COLSCINM
How many college-level science courses have you taken?


497) HSMATH
Now, let me ask you to think about the courses you took in high school. What was the highest level of math that you completed in high school?


498) HSBIO
Did you take a high school biology course?


499) HSCHEM
Did you take a high school chemistry course?


500) HSPHYS
Did you take a high school physics course?


501) NANOWILL
Nanotechnology works at the molecular level atom by atom to build new structures, materials, and machines. People have frequently noted that new technologies have produced both benefits and harmful results. Do you think the benefits of nanotechnology will outweigh the harmful results or the harmful results will outweigh the benefits?


502) NANOBEN
[If NANOWILL=1] Would you say that the balance will be strongly in favor of the benefits, or only slightly?


503) NANOHARM
[If NANOWILL=3] Would you say that the balance will be strongly in favor of the harmful results, or only slightly?


504) INTINTL
International and foreign policy issues. (Are you very interested, moderately interested, or not at all interested?)


505) INTFARM
Agriculture and farm issues. (Are you very interested, moderately interested or not at all interested?)


506) INTEDUC
Local school issues. (Are you very interested, moderately interested or not at all interested?)


507) INTSCI
Issues about new scientific discoveries. (Are you very interested, moderately interested or not at all interested?)


508) INTECON
Economic issues and business conditions. (Are you very interested, moderately interested or not at all interested?)


509) INTTECH
Issues about the use of new inventions and technologies. (Are you very interested, moderately interested or not at all interested?)


510) INTMED
Issues about new medical discoveries. (Are you very interested, moderately interested or not at all interested?)


511) INTSPACE
Issues about space exploration. (Are you very interested, moderately interested or not at all interested?)


512) INTENVIR
Issues about environmental pollution. (Are you very interested, moderately interested or not at all interested?)


513) INTMIL
Issues about military and defense policy. (Are you very interested, moderately interested or not at all interested?)


514) VISNHIST
A natural history museum. How many times did you visit a natural history museum during the last year?


515) VISZOO
A zoo or aquarium. How many times did you visit a zoo or aquarium during the last year?


516) VISSCI
A science or technology museum. How many times did you visit a science or technology museum during the last year?


517) SCINEWS1
You said you get most of your information about science and technology from newspapers. Would that be printed newspapers or online newspapers?


518) SCINEWS2
You said you get most of your information about science and technology from magazines. Would that be printed magazines or online magazines?


519) SCINEWS3
You said you get most of your information about science and technology from the Internet. What is the place you are most likely to go on the Internet for science and technology information--online newspapers, online magazines or some other place on the Internet? IF RESPONDENT GIVES MORE THAN ONE PLACE OR SAYS 'IT DEPENDS,' PROBE ONCE: Which site are you most likely to go on the Internet for science and technology information?


520) SCIENTGO
Scientific researchers are dedicated people who work for the good of humanity. Do you strongly agree, agree, disagree, or strongly disagree?


521) SCIENTHE
Scientists are helping to solve challenging problems. Do you strongly agree, agree, disagree, or strongly disagree?


522) SCIENTOD
Scientists are apt to be odd and peculiar people. Do you strongly agree, agree, disagree, or strongly disagree?


523) SCIENTBE
Most scientists want to work on things that will make life better for the average person. Do you strongly agree, agree, disagree, or strongly disagree?


524) RATETONE
Interviewer: Please record the color from the color card that most closely corresponds to the respondent's facial coloring


525) OBEYLAW
In general, would you say that people should obey the law without exception, or are there exceptional occasions on which people should follow their consciences even if it means breaking the law?


526) PROTEST1
There are many ways people or organizations can protest against a government action they strongly oppose. Please show which you think should be allowed and which should not be allowed by circling a number after each question. Organizing public meetings to protest against the government.


527) PROTEST3
There are many ways people or organizations can protest against a government action they strongly oppose. Please show which you think should be allowed and which should not be allowed by circling a number after each question. Organizing protest marches and demonstrations.


528) REVSPEAK
There are some people whose views are considered extreme by the majority. First, consider people who want to overthrow the government by revolution. Please circle a number after each question to show if you think such people should be allowed to... Hold public meetings to express their views.


529) REVPUB
There are some people whose views are considered extreme by the majority. First, consider people who want to overthrow the government by revolution. Please circle a number after each question to show if you think such people should be allowed to... Publish books expressing their views.


530) VERDICT
All systems of justice make mistakes, but which do you think is worse? To convict an innocent person or to let a guilty person go free?


531) CUTGOVT
Here are some things the government might do for the economy. Circle one number for each action to show whether you are in favor of it or against it. Cuts in government spending.


532) MAKEJOBS
Here are some things the government might do for the economy. Circle one number for each action to show whether you are in favor of it or against it. Government financing of projects to create new jobs.


533) LESSREG
Here are some things the government might do for the economy. Circle one number for each action to show whether you are in favor of it or against it. Less government regulation of business.


534) HLPHITEC
Here are some things the government might do for the economy. Circle one number for each action to show whether you are in favor of it or against it. Support for industry to develop new products and technology.


535) SAVEJOBS
Here are some things the government might do for the economy. Circle one number for each action to show whether you are in favor of it or against it. Supporting declining industries to protect jobs.


536) CUTHOURS
Here are some things the government might do for the economy. Circle one number for each action to show whether you are in favor of it or against it. Reducing the work week to create more jobs.


537) SPENVIRO
Listed below are various areas of government spending. Please indicate whether you would like to see more or less government spending in each area. Remember that if you say 'much more,' it might require a tax increase to pay for it. The environment.


538) SPHLTH
Listed below are various areas of government spending. Please indicate whether you would like to see more or less government spending in each area. Remember that if you say 'much more,' it might require a tax increase to pay for it. Health.


539) SPPOLICE
Listed below are various areas of government spending. Please indicate whether you would like to see more or less government spending in each area. Remember that if you say 'much more,' it might require a tax increase to pay for it. The police and law enforcement.


540) SPSCHOOL
Listed below are various areas of government spending. Please indicate whether you would like to see more or less government spending in each area. Remember that if you say 'much more,' it might require a tax increase to pay for it. Education.


541) SPARMS
Listed below are various areas of government spending. Please indicate whether you would like to see more or less government spending in each area. Remember that if you say 'much more,' it might require a tax increase to pay for it. The military and defense.


542) SPRETIRE
Listed below are various areas of government spending. Please indicate whether you would like to see more or less government spending in each area. Remember that if you say 'much more,' it might require a tax increase to pay for it. Retirement benefits.


543) SPUNEMP
Listed below are various areas of government spending. Please indicate whether you would like to see more or less government spending in each area. Remember that if you say 'much more,' it might require a tax increase to pay for it. Unemployment benefits


544) SPARTS
Listed below are various areas of government spending. Please indicate whether you would like to see more or less government spending in each area. Remember that if you say 'much more,' it might require a tax increase to pay for it. Culture and the arts.


545) JOBSALL
On the whole, do you think it should or should not be the government's responsibility to... Provide a job for everyone who wants one.


546) PRICECON
On the whole, do you think it should or should not be the government's responsibility to... Keep prices under control.


547) HLTHCARE
On the whole, do you think it should or should not be the government's responsibility to... Provide health care for the sick.


548) AIDOLD
On the whole, do you think it should or should not be the government's responsibility to... Provide a decent standard of living for the old.


549) AIDINDUS
On the whole, do you think it should or should not be the government's responsibility to... Provide industry with the help it needs to grow.


550) AIDUNEMP
On the whole, do you think it should or should not be the government's responsibility to... Provide a decent standard of living for the unemployed.


551) EQUALIZE
On the whole, do you think it should or should not be the government's responsibility to... Reduce income differences between the rich and poor.


552) AIDCOL
On the whole, do you think it should or should not be the government's responsibility to... Give financial help to university students from low-income families.


553) AIDHOUSE
On the whole, do you think it should or should not be the government's responsibility to... Provide decent housing for those who can't afford it.


554) POLINT
How interested would you say you personally are in politics?


555) GRNLAWS
On the whole, do you think it should or should not be the government's responsibility to impose strict laws to make industry do less damage to the environment?


556) GENDEREQ
On the whole, do you think it should or should not be the government's responsibility to ... Promote equality between men and women? Would you say...


557) PRVDHLTH
People have different opinions on who should provide services in America. Who do you think should primarily provide ... Healthcare for the sick? Should it be...


558) PRVDOLD
People have different opinions on who should provide services in America. Who do you think should primarily provide... Care for old people? Should it be...


559) PRVDSCHL
People have different opinions on who should provide services in America. Who do you think should primarily provide... School education for children? Should it be...


560) GVINFLU1
Here is a list of people and organizations that can influence government actions. Please read through this list and tell me the number corresponding to the one you think has the most influence on the actions of the American government.


561) GVINFLU2
Here is a list of people and organizations that can influence government actions. And which do you think has the second most influence on the actions of the American government?


562) POLGBECO
Here are two options about what affects policies in America. Which of them comes closest to your view?


563) POLEFF11
How much do you agree or disagree with each of the following statements? People like me don't have any say about what the government does


564) POLEFF13
How much do you agree or disagree with each of the following statements? I feel that I have a pretty good understanding of the important political issues facing our country


565) POLEFF16
How much do you agree or disagree with each of the following statements? People we elect to Congress try to keep the promises they have made during the election


566) POLEFF17
How much do you agree or disagree with each of the following statements? Most government administrators can be trusted to do what is best for the country


567) TAXPAID
In general, how often do you think that the tax authorities in America do the following? Make sure people pay their taxes? Would you say


568) TAXBYLAW
In general, how often do you think that the tax authorities in America do the following? Treat everyone in accordance with the law, regardless of their contacts or position in society? (Would you say...)


569) BRLAWFL
In general, how often do you think that the tax authorities in America do the following? Comply with laws and regulations? Would you say...


570) BRNOTAX
In general, how often do you think that the tax authorities in America do the following? Try to avoid paying their taxes? (Would you say...)


571) CCTV
Now I have some questions about civil liberties and public security. Do you think that the American government should or should not have the right to do the following? Keep people under video surveillance in public areas? Would you say...


572) EMONITOR
Now I have some questions about civil liberties and public security. Do you think that the American government should or should not have the right to do the following? Monitor e-mails and any other information exchanged on the Internet? Would you say...


573) GOVTINFO
Here is a scale from 0 to 10 where 0 is 'All government information should be publicly available, even if this means a risk to public security' and 10 is 'public security should be given priority, even if this means limiting access to government information'. Where would you place yourself on such a scale?


574) GIVNFUSA
Some people think that governments should have the right to take certain measures in the name of national security. Others disagree. Do you think that the American government should or should not have the right to do the following? Collect information about anyone living in America without their knowledge? Would you say... (GIVINFUSA)


575) GIVNFFOR
Some people think that governments should have the right to take certain measures in the name of national security. Others disagree. Do you think that the American government should or should not have the right to do the following? Collect information about anyone living in other countries without their knowledge? (Would you say...) (GIVINFFOR)


576) WOTRIAL
Suppose the government suspected that a terrorist act was about to happen. Do you think the authorities should have the right to... detain people for as long as they want without putting them on trial?


577) TAPPHONE
Suppose the government suspected that a terrorist act was about to happen. Do you think the authorities should have the right to... tap people's telephone conversations?


578) STOPRNDM
Suppose the government suspected that a terrorist act was about to happen. Do you think the authorities should have the right to... stop and search people in the street randomly?


579) CORRUPT1
In your opinion, about how many politicians in America are involved in corruption? Would you say...


580) CORRUPT2
And in your opinion, about how many government administrators in America are involved in corruption?


581) BRIBE
In the last five years, how often have you or a member of your immediate family come across a public official who hinted they wanted, or asked for, a bribe or favour in return for a service?


582) POSSLQ
Which of these statements applies to you? [CODE ONE ONLY]


583) POSSLQY
Which of these statements applies to you? [CODE ONE ONLY]


584) MARCOHAB
Marriage and cohabitation status


585) GOODLIFE
The way things are in America, people like me and my family have a good chance of improving our standard of living -- do you agree or disagree?


586) TAXRICH
Generally, how would you describe taxes in America today... We mean all taxes together, including social security, income tax, sales tax, and all the rest. First, for those with high incomes, are taxes...


587) TAXMID
Generally, how would you describe taxes in America today... We mean all taxes together, including social security, income tax, sales tax, and all the rest. Next, for those with middle incomes, are taxes...


588) TAXPOOR
Generally, how would you describe taxes in America today... We mean all taxes together, including social security, income tax, sales tax, and all the rest. Lastly, for those with low incomes, are taxes...


589) MARHOMO
Do you agree or disagree? Homosexual couples should have the right to marry one another


590) MEOVRWRK
Family life often suffers because men concentrate too much on their work.


591) WRKEARN
Thinking of work in general, please circle one number for each statement below to show how much you agree or disagree with each. A job is just a way of earning money - no more.


592) WRKENJOY
Thinking of work in general, please circle one number for each statement below to show how much you agree or disagree with each. I would enjoy having a paying job even if I did not need that money.


593) STRNGUN
How much do you agree or disagree with this statements? Workers need strong trade unions to protect their interests.


594) SECJOB
On the following list there are various aspects of jobs. Please circle one number to show how important you personally consider it is in a job:  Job security?


595) HIINC
On the following list there are various aspects of jobs. Please circle one number to show how important you personally consider it is in a job:  High income?


596) PROMOTN
On the following list there are various aspects of jobs. Please circle one number to show how important you personally consider it is in a job:  Good opportunities for advancement?


597) INTJOB
On the following list there are various aspects of jobs. Please circle one number to show how important you personally consider it is in a job:  An interesting job?


598) WRKINDP
On the following list there are various aspects of jobs. Please circle one number to show how important you personally consider it is in a job:  A job allows someone to work independently?


599) HLPOTHS
On the following list there are various aspects of jobs. Please circle one number to show how important you personally consider it is in a job:  A job that allows someone to help other people?


600) HLPSOC
On the following list there are various aspects of jobs. Please circle one number to show how important you personally consider it is in a job:  A job that is useful to society?


601) FLEXHRS1
On the following list there are various aspects of jobs. Please circle one number to show how important you personally consider it is in a job: A job that allows someone to decide the times or days of work?


602) WKPERSNL
On the following list there are various aspects of jobs. Please circle one number to show how important you personally consider it is in a job: A job that involves personal contact with other people?


603) FAMORJOB
Have you ever given up or would you give up good job opportunities for the benefit of your family life?


604) JOBORFAM
Have you ever remained or would you remain in a job that was not satisfying for you for the benefit of your family life?


605) DISCWK5
Over the past five years, have you been discriminated against with regard to work, for instance when applying for a job, or when being considered for a pay increase or promotion?


606) WHYDISC5
Over the past five years, have you been discriminated against with regard to work, for instance when applying for a job, or when being considered for a pay increase or promotion? In your opinion, what was the main reason for the discrimination?


607) HARASS5
Over the past five years, have you been harassed by your superiors or co-workers at your job, for example, have you experienced any bullying, physical or psychological abuse?


608) UNIONSBD
To what extent do you agree or disagree with the following statements? Strong trade unions are bad for America's economy.


609) RCONTACT
For each statement about your main job below, please circle one code to show how much you agree or disagree that it applies to your job. In my job, I have personal contact with other people.


610) WKATHOME
How often do you work at home during your usual working hours?


611) WKWKENDS
And how often does your job involve working on weekends?


612) DECIDWRK
Which of the following statements best describes how your working hours are decided? (By working hours we mean here the times you start and finish work, and not the total hours you work per week or month.)


613) WRKSHIFT
Which of the following statements best describes your usual working schedule in your main job?


614) CHNGEWRK
I would change my work for something different.


615) NOUNEMP5
To what extent do you agree or disagree with the following statements? In order to avoid unemployment I would be willing... To move within America.


616) NOUNEMP6
To what extent do you agree or disagree with the following statements? In order to avoid unemployment I would be willing... To move to a different country.


617) EXTRAWRK
Over the past 12 months, in addition to your main job, have you done any other work for pay?


618) EXTRAERN
Over the entire 12 months, how much did you earn from your additional job(s) in total compared with your main job?


619) JBENDYR
[Please answer if you are not currently working for pay] When did your last paid job end?


620) JBENDMO
[Please answer if you are not currently working for pay] When did your last paid job end? Please specify the month.


621) EXJOBSAT
[Please answer if you are not currently working for pay] How satisfied were you in your last job?


622) WORNOJOB
[Please answer if you are not currently working for pay] To what extent, if at all, do you worry about the possibility of not finding a job?


623) NEWSKILL
[Please answer if you are not currently working for pay] To what extent do you agree or disagree with the following statements? In order to get a job I would be willing... To accept a job that requires new skills.


624) LOWPAY
[Please answer if you are not currently working for pay] To what extent do you agree or disagree with the following statements? In order to get a job I would be willing... To accept a position with lower pay.


625) TEMPWORK
[Please answer if you are not currently working for pay] To what extent do you agree or disagree with the following statements? In order to get a job I would be willing... To accept temporary employment.


626) MORTRAVL
[Please answer if you are not currently working for pay] To what extent do you agree or disagree with the following statements? In order to get a job I would be willing... To travel longer to get to work.


627) MOVEINUS
To what extent do you agree or disagree with the following statements? In order to get a job I would be willing... To move within America.


628) MOVEAWAY
[Please answer if you are not currently working for pay] To what extent do you agree or disagree with the following statements? In order to get a job I would be willing... To move to a different country.


629) ECONSUP1
[Please answer if you are not currently working for pay] What is your main source of economic support?


630) WORECSUP
[Main source of economic support listed in ECONSUP1] To what extent, if at all, do you worry about the possibility of losing this main economic support?


631) HRSMONEY
Think of the number of hours you work and the money you earn in your main job, including any regular overtime. If you had only one of these three choices, which of the following would you prefer?


632) RSECJOB
For each statement about your main job below, please circle one code to show how much you agree or disagree that it applies to your job. My job is secure.


633) RHIINC
For each statement about your main job below, please circle one code to show how much you agree or disagree that it applies to your job. My income is high.


634) RPROMOTN
For each statement about your main job below, please circle one code to show how much you agree or disagree that it applies to your job. My opportunities for advancement are high.


635) RINTJOB
For each statement about your main job below, please circle one code to show how much you agree or disagree that it applies to your job. My job is interesting.


636) RWRKINDP
For each statement about your main job below, please circle one code to show how much you agree or disagree that it applies to your job. I can work independently.


637) RHLPOTHS
For each statement about your main job below, please circle one code to show how much you agree or disagree that it applies to your job. In my job I can help other people.


638) RHLPSOC
For each statement about your main job below, please circle one code to show how much you agree or disagree that it applies to your job. My job is useful to society.


639) XHAUSTN
Now some more questions about your working conditions. Please circle one code for each item below to show how often it applies to your work. How often... Do you come home from work exhausted?


640) STRESS
Now some more questions about your working conditions. Please circle one code for each item below to show how often it applies to your work. How often: Do you find your work stressful?


641) BOSSEMPS
In general how would you describe relations in your work place... Between management and employees?


642) COWRKERS
In general how would you describe relations in your work place... Between co-workers/colleagues?


643) JOBSAT
How satisfied are you in your job?


644) LOCALNUM
About how many people work at the location where you work? (Count part-time as well as full-time employees in all areas, departments and buildings.)


645) WANTJOB1
Suppose you could decide on your work situation at present. Which of the following would you prefer?


646) WORKNOW
Are you currently working for pay?


647) USESKILL
How much of your past work experience and/or job skills can you make use of in your present job?


648) HELPORG1
To what extent do you agree or disagree with each of the following statements? I am willing to work harder than I have to in order to help the firm or organization I work for succeed.


649) PRIDEORG
To what extent do you agree or disagree with each of the following statements? I am proud to be working for my firm or organization.


650) STAYORG3
To what extent do you agree or disagree with each of the following statements? I would turn down another job that offered quite a bit more pay in order to stay with this organization.


651) PROUDWRK
To what extent do you agree or disagree with each of the following statements? I am proud of the type of work I do.


652) LEAVEJOB
All in all, how likely is it that you will try to find a job with another firm or organization within the next 12 months?


653) WORRYJOB
To what extent, if at all, do you worry about the possibility of losing your job?


654) EVJOB
[Please answer if you are not currently working for pay] Have you ever had a paid job for one year or more?


655) WHYJBEND
[Please answer if you are not currently working for pay] What was the main reason that your job ended?


656) WANTJOB2
[Please answer if you are not currently working for pay] Would you like to have a paid job, either now or in the future?


657) GETJOB
[Please answer if you are not currently working for pay] How likely do you think it is that you would find a job?


658) LOOKJOB
[Please answer if you are not currently working for pay] Are you currently looking for a job?


659) PUBAGNCY
[Please answer if you are not currently working for pay] Thinking about the last 12 months, have you done any of the following in order to find a job? Registered at a public employment agency?


660) PRIAGNCY
[Please answer if you are not currently working for pay] Thinking about the last 12 months, have you done any of the following in order to find a job? Registered at a private employment agency?


661) WANTADS
[Please answer if you are not currently working for pay] Thinking about the last 12 months, have you done any of the following in order to find a job? Answered advertisements for jobs?


662) ADFORJOB
[Please answer if you are not currently working for pay] Thinking about the last 12 months, have you done any of the following in order to find a job? Advertised for a job in newspapers or journals?


663) APPEMPS
[Please answer if you are not currently working for pay] Thinking about the last 12 months, have you done any of the following in order to find a job? Applied directly to employers?


664) ASKHELP
[Please answer if you are not currently working for pay] Thinking about the last 12 months, have you done any of the following in order to find a job? Asked relatives, friends, or colleagues to help you find a job?


665) DAILYWRK
Which of the following statements best describes how your daily work is organized?


666) TIMEOFF
How difficult would it be for you to take an hour or two off during working hours, to take care of personal or family matters?


667) JBINTFAM
How often do you feel that the demands of your job interfere with your family life?


668) FAMINTJB
How often do you feel that the demands of your family life interfere with your job?


669) JBTRAIN
Over the past 12 months, have you had any training to improve your job skills, either at the workplace or somewhere else?


670) JOBEASY
How difficult or easy do you think it would be for you to find a job at least as good as your current one?


671) NOUNEMP1
To what extent do you agree or disagree with the following statements? In order to avoid unemployment I would be willing To accept a job that requires new skills.


672) NOUNEMP2
To what extent do you agree or disagree with the following statements? In order to avoid unemployment I would be willing To accept a position with lower pay.


673) NOUNEMP3
To what extent do you agree or disagree with the following statements? In order to avoid unemployment I would be willing... To accept temporary employment.


674) NOUNEMP4
To what extent do you agree or disagree with the following statements? In order to avoid unemployment I would be willing... To travel longer to get to work.


675) SKLTRAIN
[Please answer if you are not currently working for pay] Thinking about the last 12 months, have you had any training to improve your job skills?


676) RELACTIV
How often do you take part in the activities and organizations of a church or place of worship other than attending services?


677) NUKEGEN
In general, do you think that nuclear power stations are...


678) INDUSGEN
In general, do you think that air pollution caused by industry is...


679) CHEMGEN
In general, do you think that pesticides and chemicals used in farming are...


680) WATERGEN
In general, do you think that pollution of America's rivers, lakes, and streams is...


681) TEMPGEN
In general, do you think that a rise in the world's temperature caused by the 'greenhouse effect', is...


682) GENEGEN
Do you think that modifying the genes of certain crops is:


683) LETIN1
There are different opinions about immigrants from other countries living in America. (By 'Immigrants' we mean people who come to settle in America.) Do you think the number of immigrants to America nowadays should be...


684) PARTNERS
How many sex partners have you had in the last 12 months?


685) MATESEX
Was one of the partners your husband or wife or regular sexual partner?


686) FRNDSEX
If you had other partners, please indicate all categories that apply to them: Close personal friend


687) ACQNTSEX
If you had other partners, please indicate all categories that apply to them: Neighbor, co-worker, or long-term acquaintance


688) PIKUPSEX
If you had other partners, please indicate all categories that apply to them: Casual date or pick-up


689) PAIDSEX
If you had other partners, please indicate all categories that apply to them: Person you paid or paid you for sex


690) OTHERSEX
If you had other partners, please indicate all categories that apply to them: Other


691) SEXSEX
Have your sex partners in the last 12 months been...


692) SEXFREQ
About how often did you have sex during the last 12 months?


693) NUMWOMEN
Now thinking about the time since your 18th birthday (including the past 12 months) how many female partners have you had sex with?


694) NUMMEN
Now thinking about the time since your 18th birthday (including the past 12 months) how many male partners have you had sex with?


695) PARTNRS5
Now think about the past five years-the time since February/March [2016], and including the past 12 months, how many sex partners have you had in that five year period?


696) SEXSEX5
Have your sex partners in the last five years been...


697) EVPAIDSX
Thinking about the time since your 18th birthday, have you ever had sex with a person you paid or who paid you for sex?


698) EVSTRAY
Have you ever had sex with someone other than your husband or wife while you were married?


699) CONDOM
The last time you had sex, was a condom used? By 'sex' we mean vaginal, oral, or anal sex


700) RELATSEX
The last time you had sex, was it with someone you were in an on-going relationship with, or was it with someone else? Remember that by 'sex' we mean only vaginal, oral, or anal sex


701) EVIDU
Have you ever, even once, taken any drugs by injection with a needle (like heroin, cocaine, amphetamines or steroids)? Do not include anything you took under a doctor's orders


702) IDU30
How long has it been since you last used a needle to inject drugs?


703) EVCRACK
Have you ever, even once, used 'crack' cocaine in chunk or rock form?


704) CRACK30
How long has it been since you last used 'crack' cocaine in chunk or rock form?


705) HIVTEST
Have you ever been tested for HIV? Do not count tests you may have had as part of a blood donation. Include oral tests (where they take a swab from your mouth).


706) HIVTEST1
Not including blood donations, in what month and year was your last HIV test?


707) HIVTEST2
Where did you have your last HIV test - at a private doctor or HMO office, at a counseling and testing site, at a hospital, at a clinic, in a jail or prison, at home or somewhere else?


708) SEXORNT
Which of the following best describes you?


709) REALINC
Family income in constant dollars


710) REALRINC
Respondent's income in constant dollars


711) CONINC
Inflation-adjusted family income.


712) CONRINC
Inflation-adjusted personal income.


713) ETHNIC
From what countries or part of the world did your ancestors come?


714) ETH1
First ethnicity mentioned


715) ETH2
Second ethnicity mentioned


716) ETH3
Third ethnicity mentioned


717) ETHNUM
Type of response about ethnicity


718) HISPANIC
IF RESPONDENT IS FEMALE, READ LATINA; IF MALE, READ LATINO. Are you Spanish, Hispanic or Latino/Latina? IF YES: Which group are you from?


719) RACECEN1
What is your race? Indicate one or more races that you consider yourself to be. First mention


720) RACECEN2
What is your race? Indicate one or more races that you consider yourself to be. Second mention


721) RACECEN3
What is your race? Indicate one or more races that you consider yourself to be. Third mention


722) RACETHWH
In describing our background, we often ask someone which racial or ethnic groups best describes them. Imagine if we used instead a 10 point system where points are allocated to whichever racial or ethnic groups the respondent thinks accurately describes themselves. For example, if you think of yourself as just Latino, you would allocate all 10 points to Latino. Or if you think of yourself as mixed race, but more African American than white, you might allocate 6 or 7 points to black and 3 or 4 points to white. Thinking of your background in racial and ethnic terms... How would you describe your race and ethnicity using this 10-point system using the following choices: White


723) RACETHHI
In describing our background, we often ask someone which racial or ethnic groups best describes them. Imagine if we used instead a 10 point system where points are allocated to whichever racial or ethnic groups the respondent thinks accurately describes themselves. For example, if you think of yourself as just Latino, you would allocate all 10 points to Latino. Or if you think of yourself as mixed race, but more African American than white, you might allocate 6 or 7 points to black and 3 or 4 points to white. Thinking of your background in racial and ethnic terms... How would you describe your race and ethnicity using this 10-point system using the following choices: Hispanic or Latino


724) RACETHBL
In describing our background, we often ask someone which racial or ethnic groups best describes them. Imagine if we used instead a 10 point system where points are allocated to whichever racial or ethnic groups the respondent thinks accurately describes themselves. For example, if you think of yourself as just Latino, you would allocate all 10 points to Latino. Or if you think of yourself as mixed race, but more African American than white, you might allocate 6 or 7 points to black and 3 or 4 points to white. Thinking of your background in racial and ethnic terms... How would you describe your race and ethnicity using this 10-point system using the following choices: Black or African American


725) RACETHAS
In describing our background, we often ask someone which racial or ethnic groups best describes them. Imagine if we used instead a 10 point system where points are allocated to whichever racial or ethnic groups the respondent thinks accurately describes themselves. For example, if you think of yourself as just Latino, you would allocate all 10 points to Latino. Or if you think of yourself as mixed race, but more African American than white, you might allocate 6 or 7 points to black and 3 or 4 points to white. Thinking of your background in racial and ethnic terms... How would you describe your race and ethnicity using this 10-point system using the following choices: Asian American


726) RACETHNA
In describing our background, we often ask someone which racial or ethnic groups best describes them. Imagine if we used instead a 10 point system where points are allocated to whichever racial or ethnic groups the respondent thinks accurately describes themselves. For example, if you think of yourself as just Latino, you would allocate all 10 points to Latino. Or if you think of yourself as mixed race, but more African American than white, you might allocate 6 or 7 points to black and 3 or 4 points to white. Thinking of your background in racial and ethnic terms... How would you describe your race and ethnicity using this 10-point system using the following choices: Native American or American Indian


727) RACETHOT
In describing our background, we often ask someone which racial or ethnic groups best describes them. Imagine if we used instead a 10 point system where points are allocated to whichever racial or ethnic groups the respondent thinks accurately describes themselves. For example, if you think of yourself as just Latino, you would allocate all 10 points to Latino. Or if you think of yourself as mixed race, but more African American than white, you might allocate 6 or 7 points to black and 3 or 4 points to white. Thinking of your background in racial and ethnic terms... How would you describe your race and ethnicity using this 10-point system using the following choices: Other


728) USCITZN
Now we would like to ask you about U.S. citizenship. Are you...?


729) FUCITZN
Now we would like to ask you about U.S. citizenship. Are you...?


730) VETYEARS
Have you ever been on active duty for military training or service for two consecutive months or more? If yes: What was your total time on active duty?


731) DWELLING
Dwelling type


732) DWELOWN
(Do you/Does your family) own your (home/apartment), pay rent or what?


733) WORDA
We would like to know something about how people go about guessing words they do not know. On this card are listed some words -- you may know some of them, and you may not know quite a few of them. On each line the first word is in capital letters - like BEAST. Then there are five other words. Tell me the number of the word that comes closest to the meaning of the word in capital letters. For example, if the word in capital letters is BEAST, you would say '4' since 'animal' comes closer to beast than any of the other words. If you wish, I will read the words to you. These words are difficult for almost everyone just give me your best guess if you are not sure of the answer. Word A


734) WORDB
We would like to know something about how people go about guessing words they do not know. On this card are listed some words -- you may know some of them, and you may not know quite a few of them. On each line the first word is in capital letters - like BEAST. Then there are five other words. Tell me the number of the word that comes closest to the meaning of the word in capital letters. For example, if the word in capital letters is BEAST, you would say '4' since 'animal' comes closer to beast than any of the other words. If you wish, I will read the words to you. These words are difficult for almost everyone just give me your best guess if you are not sure of the answer. Word B


735) WORDC
We would like to know something about how people go about guessing words they do not know. On this card are listed some words -- you may know some of them, and you may not know quite a few of them. On each line the first word is in capital letters - like BEAST. Then there are five other words. Tell me the number of the word that comes closest to the meaning of the word in capital letters. For example, if the word in capital letters is BEAST, you would say '4' since 'animal' comes closer to beast than any of the other words. If you wish, I will read the words to you. These words are difficult for almost everyone just give me your best guess if you are not sure of the answer. Word C


736) WORDD
We would like to know something about how people go about guessing words they do not know. On this card are listed some words -- you may know some of them, and you may not know quite a few of them. On each line the first word is in capital letters - like BEAST. Then there are five other words. Tell me the number of the word that comes closest to the meaning of the word in capital letters. For example, if the word in capital letters is BEAST, you would say '4' since 'animal' comes closer to beast than any of the other words. If you wish, I will read the words to you. These words are difficult for almost everyone just give me your best guess if you are not sure of the answer. Word D


737) WORDE
We would like to know something about how people go about guessing words they do not know. On this card are listed some words -- you may know some of them, and you may not know quite a few of them. On each line the first word is in capital letters - like BEAST. Then there are five other words. Tell me the number of the word that comes closest to the meaning of the word in capital letters. For example, if the word in capital letters is BEAST, you would say '4' since 'animal' comes closer to beast than any of the other words. If you wish, I will read the words to you. These words are difficult for almost everyone just give me your best guess if you are not sure of the answer. Word E


738) WORDF
We would like to know something about how people go about guessing words they do not know. On this card are listed some words -- you may know some of them, and you may not know quite a few of them. On each line the first word is in capital letters - like BEAST. Then there are five other words. Tell me the number of the word that comes closest to the meaning of the word in capital letters. For example, if the word in capital letters is BEAST, you would say '4' since 'animal' comes closer to beast than any of the other words. If you wish, I will read the words to you. These words are difficult for almost everyone just give me your best guess if you are not sure of the answer. Word F


739) WORDG
We would like to know something about how people go about guessing words they do not know. On this card are listed some words -- you may know some of them, and you may not know quite a few of them. On each line the first word is in capital letters - like BEAST. Then there are five other words. Tell me the number of the word that comes closest to the meaning of the word in capital letters. For example, if the word in capital letters is BEAST, you would say '4' since 'animal' comes closer to beast than any of the other words. If you wish, I will read the words to you. These words are difficult for almost everyone just give me your best guess if you are not sure of the answer. Word G


740) WORDH
We would like to know something about how people go about guessing words they do not know. On this card are listed some words -- you may know some of them, and you may not know quite a few of them. On each line the first word is in capital letters - like BEAST. Then there are five other words. Tell me the number of the word that comes closest to the meaning of the word in capital letters. For example, if the word in capital letters is BEAST, you would say '4' since 'animal' comes closer to beast than any of the other words. If you wish, I will read the words to you. These words are difficult for almost everyone just give me your best guess if you are not sure of the answer. Word H


741) WORDI
We would like to know something about how people go about guessing words they do not know. On this card are listed some words -- you may know some of them, and you may not know quite a few of them. On each line the first word is in capital letters - like BEAST. Then there are five other words. Tell me the number of the word that comes closest to the meaning of the word in capital letters. For example, if the word in capital letters is BEAST, you would say '4' since 'animal' comes closer to beast than any of the other words. If you wish, I will read the words to you. These words are difficult for almost everyone just give me your best guess if you are not sure of the answer. Word I


742) WORDJ
We would like to know something about how people go about guessing words they do not know. On this card are listed some words -- you may know some of them, and you may not know quite a few of them. On each line the first word is in capital letters - like BEAST. Then there are five other words. Tell me the number of the word that comes closest to the meaning of the word in capital letters. For example, if the word in capital letters is BEAST, you would say '4' since 'animal' comes closer to beast than any of the other words. If you wish, I will read the words to you. These words are difficult for almost everyone just give me your best guess if you are not sure of the answer. Word J


743) WORDSUM
We would like to know something about how people go about guessing words they do not know. On this card are listed some words -- you may know some of them, and you may not know quite a few of them. On each line the first word is in capital letters - like BEAST. Then there are five other words. Tell me the number of the word that comes closest to the meaning of the word in capital letters. For example, if the word in capital letters is BEAST, you would say '4' since 'animal' comes closer to beast than any of the other words. If you wish, I will read the words to you. These words are difficult for almost everyone just give me your best guess if you are not sure of the answer. Total number of correct words


744) RELATE1
Relationship of first person to head of household


745) GENDER1
Gender of first person


746) OLD1
Age of first person


747) MAR1
Marital status of first person


748) AWAY1
Is the first person staying somewhere else right now?


749) WHERE1
Where is the first person staying?


750) RELATE2
Relationship of second person to head of household


751) GENDER2
Gender of second person


752) OLD2
Age of second person


753) MAR2
Marital status of second person


754) AWAY2
Is the second person staying somewhere else right now?


755) WHERE2
Where is the second person staying?


756) RELATE3
Relationship of third person to head of household


757) GENDER3
Gender of third person


758) OLD3
Age of third person


759) MAR3
Marital status of third person


760) AWAY3
Is the third person staying somewhere else right now?


761) WHERE3
Where is the third person staying?


762) RELATE4
Relationship of fourth person to head of household


763) GENDER4
Gender of fourth person


764) OLD4
Age of fourth person


765) MAR4
Marital status of fourth person


766) AWAY4
Is the fourth person staying somewhere else right now?


767) WHERE4
Where is the fourth person staying?


768) RELATE5
Relationship of fifth person to head of household


769) GENDER5
Gender of fifth person


770) OLD5
Age of fifth person


771) MAR5
Marital status of fifth person


772) AWAY5
Is the fifth person staying somewhere else right now?


773) WHERE5
Where is the fifth person staying?


774) RELATE6
Relationship of sixth person to head of household


775) GENDER6
Gender of sixth person


776) OLD6
Age of sixth person


777) MAR6
Marital status of sixth person


778) AWAY6
Is the sixth person staying somewhere else right now?


779) RELATE7
Relationship of seventh person to head of household


780) GENDER7
Gender of seventh person


781) OLD7
Age of seventh person


782) MAR7
Marital status of seventh person


783) AWAY7
Is seventh person staying somewhere else right now?


784) WHERE7
Where is the seventh person staying?


785) RELATE8
Relationship of eighth person to head of household


786) GENDER8
Gender of eighth person


787) OLD8
Age of eighth person


788) MAR8
Marital status of eighth person


789) RELATE9
Relationship of ninth person to head of household


790) GENDER9
Gender of ninth person


791) OLD9
Age of ninth person


792) MAR9
Marital status of ninth person


793) RELATE10
Relationship of tenth person to head of household


794) GENDER10
Gender of tenth person


795) OLD10
Age of tenth person


796) RELATE11
Relationship of eleventh person to head of household


797) GENDER11
Gender of eleventh person


798) OLD11
Age of eleventh person


799) MAR11
Marital status of eleventh person


800) AWAY11
Is the eleventh person staying somewhere else right now?


801) WHERE11
Where is the eleventh person staying?


802) RELATE12
Relationship of twelfth person to head of household


803) GENDER12
Gender of twelfth person


804) OLD12
Age of twelfth person


805) MAR12
Marital status of twelfth person


806) RELATE13
Relationship of thirteenth person to head of household


807) GENDER13
Gender of thirteenth person


808) OLD13
Age of thirteenth person


809) MAR13
Marital status of thirteenth person


810) AWAY13
Is the thirteenth person staying somewhere else right now?


811) WHERE13
Where is the thirteenth person staying?


812) RELATE14
Relationship of fourteenth person to head of household


813) GENDER14
Gender of fourteenth person


814) OLD14
Age of fourteenth person


815) RELHHD1
What is (PERSON)'s relationship to (HEAD OF HOUSEHOLD)? Relationship of first person to head of household, revised


816) RELHHD2
What is (PERSON)'s relationship to (HEAD OF HOUSEHOLD)? Relationship of second person to head of household, revised


817) RELHHD3
Relationship of third person to head of household, revised


818) RELHHD4
Relationship of fourth person to head of household, revised


819) RELHHD5
Relationship of fifth person to head of household, revised


820) RELHHD6
Relationship of sixth person to head of household, revised


821) RELHHD7
Relationship of seventh person to head of household, revised


822) RELHHD8
Relationship of eighth person to head of household, revised


823) RELHHD9
Relationship of ninth person to head of household, revised


824) RELHHD10
Relationship of tenth person to head of household, revised


825) RELHHD11
Relationship of eleventh person to head of household, revised


826) RELHHD12
Relationship of twelfth person to head of household, revised


827) RELHHD13
Relationship of thirteenth person to head of household, revised


828) RELHHD14
Relationship of fourteenth person to head of household, revised


829) HEFINFO
Number in family of person who was household informant (i.e., who provided information on household members).


830) HHRACE
Race of household


831) RESPNUM
Number in family of respondent


832) HHTYPE
Household type


833) HHTYPE1
Household type (condensed)


834) FAMGEN
Number of family generations in household


835) RPLACE
Respondent's relationship to household head


836) RVISITOR
Is respondent a visitor?


837) VISITORS
Number of visitors in household


838) RELHH1
Relationship of first person to head of household?


839) RELHH2
Relationship of second person to head of household?


840) RELHH3
Relationship of third person to head of household?


841) RELHH4
Relationship of fourth person to head of household?


842) RELHH5
Relationship of fifth person to head of household?


843) RELHH6
Relationship of sixth person to head of household?


844) RELHH7
Relationship of seventh person to head of household?


845) RELHH8
Relationship of eighth person to head of household?


846) RELHH9
Relationship of ninth person to head of household?


847) RELHH10
Relationship of tenth person to head of household?


848) RELHH11
Relationship of eleventh person to head of household?


849) RELHH12
Relationship of twelfth person to head of household?


850) RELHH13
Relationship of thirteenth person to head of household?


851) RELHH14
Relationship of fourteenth person to head of household?


852) RELSP1
Relationship of first person to spouse?


853) RELSP2
Relationship of second person to spouse?


854) RELSP3
Relationship of third person to spouse?


855) RELSP4
Relationship of fourth person to spouse?


856) RELSP5
Relationship of fifth person to spouse?


857) RELSP6
Relationship of sixth person to spouse?


858) RELSP7
Relationship of seventh person to spouse?


859) RELSP8
Relationship of eighth person to spouse?


860) RELSP9
Relationship of ninth person to spouse?


861) RELSP10
Relationship of tenth person to spouse?


862) RELSP11
Relationship of eleventh person to spouse?


863) RELSP12
Relationship of twelfth person to spouse?


864) DATEINTV
Date of interview


865) ISCO88
Respondent's occupation, 1980 Census and 1988 ISCO Code


866) PAISCO88
Respondent's father's occupation, 1980 Census and 1988 ISCO Code


867) MAISCO88
Respondent's mother's occupation, 1980 Census and 1988 ISCO Code


868) SPISCO88
Respondent's spouse's occupation, 1980 Census and 1988 ISCO Code


869) ISCO08
Respondent's occupation, 2010 Census and 2008 ISCO code


870) PAISCO08
Respondent's father's occupation, 2010 Census and 2008 ISCO code


871) MAISCO08
Respondent's mother's occupation, 2010 Census and 2008 ISCO code


872) SPISCO08
Respondent's spouse's occupation, 2010 Census and 2008 ISCO code


873) COISCO08
Respondent's partner's occupation, 2010 Census and 2008 ISCO code


874) SEI10
Respondent's Socioeconomic Index (1980)


875) SEI10EDC
Percentage of some college education in OCC10 based on ACS2010. (SEI10EDUC)


876) SEI10INC
Percentage of $45K+ earners in OCC10 base on ACS2010.


877) PASEI10
Respondent's father's socioeconomic index (2010)


878) PASEI10E
Percentage of some college education in PAOCC10 based on ACS2010. (PASEI10EDUC)


879) PASEI10I
Percentage of $45K+ earners in PAOCC10 base on ACS2010. (PASEI10INC)


880) MASEI10
Respondent's mother's socioeconomic index (2010)


881) MASEI10E
Percentage of some college education in MAOCC10 based on ACS2010. (MASEI10EDUC)


882) MASEI10I
Percentage of $45K+ earners in MAOCC10 base on ACS2010. (MASEI10INC)


883) SPSEI10
Respondent's spouse's socioeconomic index (2010)


884) SPSEI10E
Percentage of some college education in SPOCC10 based on ACS2010. (SPSEI10EDUC)


885) SPSEI10I
Percentage of $45K+ earners in SPOCC10 base on ACS2010. (SPSEI10INC)


886) COSEI10
Respondent's partners's socioeconomic index (2010)


887) COSEI10E
Percentage of some college education in COOCC10 based on ACS2010. (COSEI10EDUC)


888) COSEI10I
Percentage of $45K+ earners in COOCC10 base on ACS2010. (COSEI10INC)


889) COPRTG10
Partner's occupational prestige score (2010) (COPRESTG10)


890) COPRT10P
Partner's occupational prestige score using threshold method (2010) (COPRESTG105PLUS)


891) USWAR
Do you expect the United States to fight in another war within the next 10 years?


892) USWARY
Do you expect the United States to fight in another world war within the next 10 years?


893) COHORT
Birth cohort of respondent


894) ZODIAC
Astrological sign of respondent


895) INTHISP
Interviewer, are you Spanish, Hispanic or Latino/Latina? Which group are you from: Mexican, Mexican American, Chicano/Chicana, Puerto Rican, Cuban or other? Please specify other.


896) INTRACE1
Interviewer: What is your race? Indicate one or more races that you consider yourself to be. First mention.


897) INTRACE2
Interviewer: What is your race? Indicate one or more races that you consider yourself to be. Second mention.


898) INTRACE3
Interviewer: What is your race? Indicate one or more races that you consider yourself to be. Third mention.


899) WHOELSE1
What other persons were present during the interview? Presence of others: children under six


900) WHOELSE2
What other persons were present during the interview? Presence of others: older children


901) WHOELSE3
What other persons were present during the interview? Presence of others: spouse/partner


902) WHOELSE4
What other persons were present during the interview? Presence of others: other relatives


903) WHOELSE5
What other persons were present during the interview? Presence of others: other adults


904) WHOELSE6
What other persons were present during the interview? Presence of others: no one


905) INTID
Interviewer's ID


906) FEEUSED
Was a respondent incentive or fee used as part of getting this case?


907) FEELEVEL
Amount of fees paid


908) LNGTHINV
Length of interview


909) INTAGE
Age of interviewer


910) INTETHN
Race of interviewer


911) MODE
Interview done in person or over the phone


912) INTSEX
Sex of interviewer


913) INTYRS
Years of service as an interviewer at NORC


914) CONSENT
Participation/recording consent


915) BALLOT
Ballot used for interview


916) VERSION
Version of questionnaire administered


917) ISSP
Status on International Social Survey Program Self-Completion Supplement


918) FORMWT
Weight for form variables


919) SAMPCODE
Sampling error code


920) SAMPLE
Sampling frame and method


921) OVERSAMP
Weights for black oversamples


922) PHASE
Subsampling: two-phase design


923) SPANSELF
If this interview had only been available in English, would you have been able to do the interview easily in English, have been able to do the interview with difficulty or not have been able to do the interview?


924) SPANINT
Before 2006, the GSS was only administered in English. Those without enough English to do the interview were excluded as out-of-scope, language problems. In 2006, a Spanish version of the GSS was added. If there had been no Spanish version available in 2006, could this respondent have been interviewed in English or do you think (s/he) would have been excluded as a language problem?


925) SPANENG
Interview conducted in Spanish or English


926) HLTHSTRT
Would you say the respondent's health in general is Excellent, Good, Fair, or Poor?


927) HUADD
Is there a housing unit (HU) at the address shown on the assignment label?


928) HUADDWHY
Select one from the list below which best describes why there is no HU [housing unit] at this address?


929) DWELLPRE
Select one from the list below which best describes the type of structure in which the respondent lives.


930) KIDSINHH
Based on the features of this housing unit and the surrounding property/neighborhood that you can see, do you believe that there are children under the age of 15 present in the household?


931) RESPOND
Based on what you have learned about this housing unit, what is your estimate of the probability that this household will respond to the survey?


932) INCUSPOP
What do you believe the income status of this housing unit is, relative to the rest of the general United States population?


933) NEISAFE
Now thinking about safety in this neighborhood, how safe do you think it is?


934) RLOOKS
How physically attractive is the respondent?


935) RGROOMED
How well groomed is the respondent?


936) RWEIGHT
Respondent Weight rating


937) RHLTHEND
Would you say the respondent's health in general is Excellent, Good, Fair, or Poor?


938) WTSS
Due to the adoption of the non-respondent, sub-sampling design, a weight must be employed when using the GSS 2004 and after. WTSS variable takes into consideration a) the sub-sampling of non-respondents, and b) the number of adults in the household. It also essentially maintains the original sample size. In years prior to 2004, a one is assigned to all cases so they are effectively unweighted. To adjust for number of adults in years prior to 2004, a number of adults weight would need to be utilized.


939) WTSSNR
It is similar to WTSS, but adds in an area non-response adjustment. Thus, this variable takes into consideration a) the sub-sampling of non-respondents, b) the number of adults in the household, and c) differential non-response across areas. It also essentially maintains the original sample size. As with WTSS, WTSSNR has a value of one assigned to all pre-2004 cases and as such they are effectively unweighted. Number of adults can be utilized to make this adjustment for years prior to 2004, but no area non-response adjustment is possible prior to 2004.


940) WTSSALL
Weight variable


941) VSTRAT
Variance stratum


942) VPSU
Variance primary sampling unit


943) I-AGE
Respondent's age (Recoded for use with online analysis)


944) I-ATTEND
How often do you attend religious services? (Recoded for use with online analysis)


945) I-POLITICS
We hear a lot of talk these days about liberals and conservatives.  I'm going to show you a seven-point scale on which the political views that people might hold are arranged from extremely liberal (point 1) to extremely conservative (point 7).  Where would you place yourself on this scale? (Recoded for use with online analysis)


946) I-RACE
What race do you consider yourself? (for use with online analysis)


947) I-RELIGION
What is your religious preference? Is it Protestant, Catholic, Jewish, some other religion or no religion? (Recoded for use with online analysis)


948) I-SEX
Respondent's sex (for use with online analysis)


